ENGLISH Approval of the Minutes of the previous sitting 
ENGLISH The Minutes of yesterday 's sitting have been distributed . 
ENGLISH Are there any comments ? 
ENGLISH Mr President , on Monday I made a point of order about President Nicole Fontaine 's reported comments in the British press regarding her recent visit with Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II . 
ENGLISH A British Labour Member of this House , Mr Miller , repeated what were purported to be the Queen 's remarks , not once but three times , on Monday , on Tuesday and on Wednesday . 
ENGLISH He sought to drag the Queen into a political controversy and to use her name to score cheap political points . 
ENGLISH He knows perfectly well that ours is a non - political Head of State . 
ENGLISH He knows perfectly well that for nearly fifty years she has scrupulously avoided engaging in controversial political issues . 
ENGLISH He knows perfectly well that she cannot come to this House to set the record straight . 
ENGLISH His behaviour is a disgrace and a scandal . 
ENGLISH Mr President , I am proud to be British but today I am ashamed to share my nationality with that man . 
ENGLISH Has he no shame ? 
ENGLISH Has he no respect ? 
ENGLISH Has he no decency or honour at all ? 
ENGLISH Mr President , I wish to use this point of order to speak in my capacity as chairman of the delegation for relations with the countries of Central America and Mexico . 
ENGLISH As you will be aware , elections were held in Mexico last Sunday . 
ENGLISH Yesterday the delegation which I chair met and discussed a report drawn up by our fellow Members who had been to Mexico to act as observers at these elections on behalf of this Parliament . 
ENGLISH Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , I want to draw your attention to something really annoying in connection with the Minutes . 
ENGLISH The - & # x2018 ; Texts Adopted & # x2019 ; - also form part of the Minutes . 
ENGLISH I pointed out yesterday during the vote on the directive to combat money laundering the English translation of Article 6 ( 3 ) needs to be corrected to bring it in line with Amendment No 26, because the English translation is wrong . 
ENGLISH In the middle of the second paragraph of the English version there is only a reference to representation in legal proceedings , but no reference to legal consultants , as there is in the German text . 
ENGLISH That is a key point in this directive and since the Council working group is working on the basis of the English text it is quite crucial to correct this text . 
ENGLISH I had already complained about this in committee vis à vis the language services . 
ENGLISH At the time the committee decided not to table an amendment because the German text is the original version , as drafted by the rapporteur . 
ENGLISH I complained about this yesterday -- the situation was not remedied -- and today is the third time I am complaining about it ! 
ENGLISH I do think the services of this House should work more carefully on such key questions and it really is intolerable that despite my criticism yesterday the Minutes have got the text wrong again ! 
ENGLISH I would ask you get to the bottom of this matter , to sort out this most important aspect of the directive and to please correct this in the English translation ! 
ENGLISH Mr President , yesterday we received a communication on yellow paper from the vice - president , with some nuts attached to it . 
ENGLISH I think that is a very good idea and quite right . 
ENGLISH And I am quite happy to support it . 
ENGLISH But what rather puzzles me is that in it the vice - president quite explicitly stated that it is illegal to import these nuts into the European Union . 
ENGLISH So I must ask this vice - president to explain how these nuts came to be illegally imported , since it was he who delivered them to us ! 
ENGLISH That in itself is a contradiction so would he please clarify the matter . 
ENGLISH ( The Minutes were approved ) 
ENGLISH Welcome 
ENGLISH Committee on Petitions -- European Ombudsman 
ENGLISH The next item is the joint debate on the following reports , tabled on behalf of the Committee on Petitions : 
ENGLISH ( A5 - 0162 / 2000 ) by Mrs Lambert , on the deliberations of the Committee on Petitions during the parliamentary year 1999 - 2000 ; 
ENGLISH ( A5 - 0181 / 2000 ) by Mrs Thors , on the annual report on the activities of the European Ombudsman in 1999 . 
ENGLISH Mr President , I am glad to have the opportunity to address the European Parliament concerning the results of my work as European Ombudsman in the year 1999 . 
ENGLISH The Annual Report for 1999 covers the last year of the first mandate of the European Ombudsman . 
ENGLISH Last year the Ombudsman 's office received 1,577 new complaints compared to 1,372 in 1998, an increase of nearly 15 % . 
ENGLISH As well as becoming better known , the European Ombudsman is also attracting a higher proportion of serious complaints which require full investigation . 
ENGLISH You may be interested to know that the same trend has continued to the present year . 
ENGLISH During the first six months of this year , the number of new inquiries rose by 32 % over the same period in 1999 . 
ENGLISH Inquiries are the most resource - intensive aspect of the Ombudsman 's work . 
ENGLISH I do hope that the European Parliament will support the Ombudsman in seeking the resources needed to carry out the work effectively . 
ENGLISH During 1999, we continued to receive a quite high proportion of complaints , over 70 % , which lay outside the mandate of the European Ombudsman . 
ENGLISH We gladly accept complaints by e - mail and many of them contain well -- presented allegations of maladministration . 
ENGLISH During the campaign for the election of a European Ombudsman last year , some critical voices suggested that the Ombudsman 's mandate should be broadened to include complaints against Member States in cases where a question of European Union law is involved . 
ENGLISH I am not sure whether they understood that this would mean the European Ombudsman carrying out tasks currently belonging to the European Commission as the guardian of the Treaty , and to the European Parliament as the democratic forum to which citizens may address petitions . 
ENGLISH We study carefully all the complaints we receive , especially if they involve rights under European Union law . 
ENGLISH In 1999, we managed to advise the complainant , or transfer the complaint to a competent body , in about half of the cases . 
ENGLISH Of these , we transferred 71 cases to the European Parliament to be dealt with as petitions and advised a further 142 complainants of their rights to petition the European Parliament . 
ENGLISH In many cases , complaints against national , regional or local authorities could be dealt with effectively by an Ombudsman in the Member States concerned . 
ENGLISH In every Member State there should be a non - judicial body which can assist European citizens in conflicts with Member States' administration concerning their rights under European Union law . 
ENGLISH As a believer in subsidiarity , I remain convinced that the most effective way to achieve this result is through the development of a network of cooperation with these Ombudsmen as similar bodies such as petitions committees . 
ENGLISH We organised jointly with the French Ombudsman , Mr Stasi , a seminar for national Ombudsmen and similar bodies . 
ENGLISH In Paris in September 1999, Mr Perry , the first vice - chairman of the Committee on Petitions , represented the European Parliament . 
ENGLISH The regional Ombudsmen and similar bodies were invited to a meeting in Florence last year in which Mr Gemelli , the chairman of the Committee on Petitions , also attended . 
ENGLISH I strongly believe that cooperation with them on equal terms will achieve the best results for European citizens . 
ENGLISH At the beginning , great doubts were expressed as to whether the European Ombudsman had sufficient powers to achieve anything for the citizen . 
ENGLISH These doubts were unjustified because the Community 's institutions and bodies have responded properly to the Ombudsman 's work . 
ENGLISH Since the beginning , they have themselves settled the complaint to the satisfaction of the complainant in over 180 cases . 
ENGLISH For example , they have replied to unanswered letters , made payments that are due and reversed previous unfavourable decisions . 
ENGLISH This indicates a spirit of responsiveness and flexibility superior to those national administrations of which I have experience . 
ENGLISH Sixty - two of these settlements occurred last year , reducing the scope for friendly solutions to be proposed by the Ombudsman . 
ENGLISH However , we did achieve one friendly solution in 1999 in a case where the Commission and the Council agreed that the complainant should be paid the amount due him for his work as a European Union regional coordinator monitoring the Palestinian elections . 
ENGLISH If the institution or body concerned will not correct the maladministration itself , the Ombudsman 's ultimate weapon is to draft a recommendation followed , if necessary , by a special report to European Parliament . 
ENGLISH Five years ago , there were many people who said that the Community institutions and bodies did not pay much heed to European Parliament . 
ENGLISH Even if they might have been right then , things have clearly changed since the Treaty of Amsterdam and the fall of the Santer Commission . 
ENGLISH In 1999 we made ten draft recommendations . 
ENGLISH In seven cases the institution concerned has accepted a draft recommendation . 
ENGLISH In two cases the Ombudsman has made a special report to the European Parliament . 
ENGLISH One case remains ongoing , since Europol needs more time to comply with the draft recommendation that it should approve some public access to documents . 
ENGLISH I believe that the European Ombudsman 's activities have reached the level that one has the right to expect of a body which is new and consists of 25 persons working in a fairly complex legal environment . 
ENGLISH We are achieving results for European citizens , and this is what matters above all . 
ENGLISH I would like to use this opportunity to thank all the Community institutions and bodies for another year of constructive cooperation . 
ENGLISH I would especially like to address the Commission and its responsible Member , Mrs Loyola de Palacio , and thank her for continuing her predecessor 's commitment to an honest and constructive attitude towards cooperation with the Ombudsman . 
ENGLISH I would also like to express my warm appreciation for the helpful and cooperative attitude towards the Ombudsman 's office shown by the Committee on Petitions and especially its vice - chairman , Mr Gemelli , and also thank the rapporteur for the Committee on Petitions Mrs Thors , for her important work on her comprehensive report . 
ENGLISH Thank you for your attention . 
ENGLISH Mr President , the report that I am presenting this morning is effectively a dual report which reflects the work of the committee itself and the work of the office of Parliament 's Mediator for Transnationally Abducted Children , Mrs Banotti . 
ENGLISH I should also like to express my personal appreciation of the work of Mr Söderman , the Ombudsman . 
ENGLISH I should also like to thank the secretariat of the committee not least for the statistical break - down which is provided there which , I must confess , is not my own work . 
ENGLISH I would urge Members who are not familiar with the Committee on Petitions to read these reports . 
ENGLISH It might well be of use to them in providing a service for the people they represent . 
ENGLISH I would also draw their attention to the website mentioned , set up under the Europe Direct initiative , which could provide useful information and possibly avoid the need for a petition or indeed confirm it as an appropriate vehicle . 
ENGLISH The aim of the Committee on Petitions itself is to provide a good and effective service for individuals within the European Union and for civil society generally . 
ENGLISH Any individual , citizen , resident or group may petition Parliament if they feel that Community law or principles are not being properly applied at whatever level . 
ENGLISH Last year we received 958 petitions of which 492 were considered admissible . 
ENGLISH I will mention just two of them to demonstrate the range of the topics and the potential effectiveness of the mechanism . 
ENGLISH We had one British petitioner who succeeded in getting her years of teaching experience recognised by the French authorities , presumably affecting her salary and promotion prospects . 
ENGLISH In another case a petition from a Spanish citizen , acting for an environmental association resulted in infringement proceedings being brought against the Spanish authorities in relation to the Habitats Directive , a frequent cause of complaint -- the directive , not the authorities -- with lasting national effect . 
ENGLISH It is such cases which provide valuable feedback to the European Parliament and the other institutions as to how our legislation works to the benefit of the individuals and society , or not , as the case may be . 
ENGLISH We could not do our work effectively on this committee without the support of numerous Commission officials who investigate cases and instigate proceedings where necessary . 
ENGLISH I wish to express our thanks . 
ENGLISH We know we could provide a more rapid and effective service if Member States could provide an equally committed response in replying to requests for information and explanation . 
ENGLISH In one case we are currently dealing with it has taken 14 months to get a reply to a letter . 
ENGLISH That is not unusual . 
ENGLISH That is why we are recommending that the Council or relevant permanent representation should also be represented at our meetings so that they develop a greater understanding of the problems citizens face and respond effectively . 
ENGLISH The aim of the committee is to improve the overall quality of our feedback mechanisms . 
ENGLISH Some of our ideas are mentioned in this report . 
ENGLISH Others will appear in a further report in September from Mr Perry and Mrs Keßler . 
ENGLISH We are proposing , as we did last year , a database mechanism so that petitioners and Members can track the progress of reports and see where the problems lie . 
ENGLISH We trust that the relevant authorities will bear this in mind this year and act on the proposal . 
ENGLISH There are various points concerning our relations with other committees . 
ENGLISH We would ask them to call on the Committee on Petitions more often to express an opinion on certain areas where concern has arisen . 
ENGLISH We would like to be involved in preparing joint reports on areas of particular concern such as the environment , social security , consumer protection and so on . 
ENGLISH We would also wish to use the experience of our committee members through their work on other committees of Parliament to institute a rapporteur - style system for specific topics . 
ENGLISH We are also keen to establish links with petitions committees in other Member States , with a view to exchanging good ideas and understanding . 
ENGLISH We consider as a committee that petitions are a valuable and empowering tool for democracy in what can often feel like a remote and anonymous institution . 
ENGLISH We need to value this mechanism and use the experience of the people we represent , as expressed through their petitions to improve our work as a whole . 
ENGLISH I commend the report to the House . 
ENGLISH Mr President , Commissioner and Mr Söderman , the rapporteur' - s and the committee' - s understanding of the Ombudsman' - s report for 1999 -- the year characterised by crises within the EU institutions and by an immense distrust of the administration -- is that the citizens will only view European integration as legitimate if they have rights that mean they can actively participate in a political dialogue with the institutions . 
ENGLISH The political dialogue is not , however , a real dialogue if the citizens do not have the right to receive information and to have access to the documents that they ask for and if the opinions they express are not paid attention to , discussed or taken seriously . 
ENGLISH What has all this got to do with the Ombudsman' - s task ? 
ENGLISH The Ombudsman' - s task is , of course , according to the Treaty , to investigate cases of maladministration within the Community institutions and within the public bodies . 
ENGLISH At the request of the European Parliament , the Ombudsman gave a definition of the term - & # x2018 ; maladministration & # x2019 ; - in the annual report for 1997 . 
ENGLISH These cases occur when a public body fails to act in accordance with a rule or principle that is binding upon it . 
ENGLISH In the report , the committee stresses that this jointly approved definition of - & # x2018 ; maladministration & # x2019 ; - also involves the right to inspect how the institutions have interpreted Community law . 
ENGLISH Irrespective of the legal form the Charter of Fundamental Rights will take , it will , in any case , be an expression of the Member States' - common constitutional traditions which , in accordance with Article 6 of the Treaty , shall be respected by the Union and therefore also by the institutions and public bodies . 
ENGLISH The committee observes , therefore , that the Ombudsman ought to play an important part in implementing a future charter of citizens' - rights . 
ENGLISH The committee has also expressed its clear support for the fact that the Charter of Fundamental Rights ought to contain rules which give citizens the right to expect good administration within the EU . 
ENGLISH - & # x2018 ; Good administration & # x2019 ; - is the opposite of - & # x2018 ; maladministration & # x2019 ; - . 
ENGLISH The right to good administration , both with respect to the Charter of Fundamental Rights and the Code of Good Administrative Behaviour which Parliament and the Ombudsman have sought , should at least contain : the right to have one' - s case heard , the right to inspect documents , the right to prompt answers from the administration and the right to receive replies supported by reasons . 
ENGLISH All these aspects have been central to the Ombudsman' - s work . 
ENGLISH These rights are prerequisites for the active citizenship that is necessary if the EU is to regain the confidence of its citizens . 
ENGLISH It is these rights that make citizenship active instead of passive . 
ENGLISH Good administration can create conditions for active citizenship , whereas maladministration can undermine these conditions . 
ENGLISH What are the most common complaints to the Ombudsman and into which categories do they fall ? 
ENGLISH Incomplete or refused information , delays that could have been avoided , discrimination , lack of the right to defence . 
ENGLISH They want to be active citizens . 
ENGLISH These conclusions can be drawn from the ever increasing number of complaints to the Ombudsman and from the nature of these complaints . 
ENGLISH The Ombudsman has become renowned for his work for the wider public . 
ENGLISH An investigation that he completed a few years ago resulted in most of the Community' - s institutions and public bodies currently having legislation that allows the public to have access to documents . 
ENGLISH He has tirelessly continued the work for real transparency and for its no longer being possible for data secrecy and personal protection to be used to prevent the public' - s scrutiny of the activities of the authorities . 
ENGLISH Step by step , the Ombudsman has developed his work , endeavoured to obtain better administration and gained the trust of the citizens . 
ENGLISH His cooperation with the national ombudsmen is also important , as will be his future cooperation with the corresponding bodies in the candidate countries . 
ENGLISH This is substantial work that Parliament has reason to support . 
ENGLISH It ought to do this by making sufficient financial resources available to the Ombudsman so that he can carry out the necessary investigations which the mandate requires . 
ENGLISH We should in the future also make sure that we support an Ombudsman who is independent in his decision making . 
ENGLISH I would like to address a big thank you to the Ombudsman and his office , as well as to the secretariat at the Committee on Petitions which , as we know , is currently working under difficult conditions . 
ENGLISH Mr President , the European Parliament' - s Committee on Petitions is a very special body . 
ENGLISH It receives complaints from citizens , as the two previous speakers rightly said , who believe their rights as EU citizens have been restricted . 
ENGLISH As draftsman of an opinion on the right of residence , I would like to make a few comments on the specific problems in this area . 
ENGLISH The free movement of persons is one of the basic freedoms achieved through European integration . 
ENGLISH Since the Maastricht Treaty there is a general right of residence , provided the individual concerned has adequate means of subsistence and adequate health insurance protection . 
ENGLISH Freedom of movement and right of residence can be restricted only for reasons of law and order , security or health . 
ENGLISH Experience has shown the Committee on Petitions that in practice the right to freedom of movement comes up against a great many problems because : ( a ) Member State authorities are slow to transpose the rules of Community law , ( b ) problems arise with the recognition of diplomas and qualifications in the case of specific professions , ( c ) the rules on social security have not been standardised , e.g. complicated forms for the refund of medical costs . 
ENGLISH An analysis of Treaty infringement proceedings between 1996 and 1999 shows that in 97 cases there was a direct link between the petition and the Treaty infringement proceedings before the European Court of Justice . 
ENGLISH Unfortunately , the Council often ignores the communications from the Committee on Petitions about serious violations of Community law by Member State authorities . 
ENGLISH That reflects a negative attitude towards the European citizens' - right of petition . 
ENGLISH Mr President , the right to petition and to complain is not some recent invention . 
ENGLISH Even 2000 years ago petitioners could put their concerns before the Roman emperor . 
ENGLISH But this right was always in danger of being changed , restricted or abolished . 
ENGLISH Yesterday' - s petitioners have become today' - s responsible European citizens . 
ENGLISH No administration or institution is infallible . 
ENGLISH Many petitions point to a discrepancy between the legal provisions and European integration . 
ENGLISH So petitions are a gauge for the relations between the citizens and the legislator and there are many levels of petitions . 
ENGLISH A population of hamsters in an industrial area is of just as much concern to us as the ban on silicon implants or the introduction of a heavy goods tax . 
ENGLISH I turn now to the Ombudsman . 
ENGLISH It was , and is , to Mr Söderman' - s credit that he has done so much to create greater transparency and openness within the European administrations . 
ENGLISH Since most of the complaints in the Ombudsman' - s remit relate to the European Commission and concern a lack of transparency , work needs to be done to improve this situation . 
ENGLISH New office technologies cannot be used as grounds for the lack of transparency either . 
ENGLISH Comprehensible , substantiated replies to the citizens create trust , the opposite gives rise to distrust and a rising number of complaints that need to be dealt with , which therefore in turn creates costs . 
ENGLISH The Ombudsman' - s proposal for a Code of Good Administrative Behaviour is particularly welcome . 
ENGLISH The citizens have a basic right to an open and responsible administration geared to providing services , since after all it is paid for out of their taxes . 
ENGLISH In my view it is most important for the European Ombudsman to play an independent role , which can serve as an example for the introduction of national ombudsmen in the candidate countries and in my Land of Thüringen . 
ENGLISH Mr President , Mr Söderman , we in the Group of the European Liberal , Democrat and Reform Party , and myself personally , are proud that our Ombudsman is courageous , enterprising and able to act . 
ENGLISH It is extremely important that we have someone with such integrity who has dared to stand up for openness and transparency and against the culture of underhandedness , secrecy and , unfortunately in certain cases , of cheating and corruption , which also exists in the European institutions . 
ENGLISH Only an open and public administration can win support among those who are working here amongst the politicians and among the citizens whom we represent . 
ENGLISH The line the Ombudsman is pursuing has a lot of support amongst the citizens of all Member States . 
ENGLISH It is an indisputable fact , and there are several international scientific reports to prove it , that there is a crystal - clear connection between a high level of openness and transparency in the administration and a low level of corruption . 
ENGLISH That is , of course , also true in the European institutions . 
ENGLISH That is why it is so important for us to have a completely independent ombudsman who can act independently and without being subject to any lobbying whatsoever or to interested parties attempting to influence him . 
ENGLISH The only criticism that can be directed at the Ombudsman is probably that , unfortunately , the institution is still far too little known in many Member States and that far too few citizens are aware of this right . 
ENGLISH This is probably something which I would like to see concentrated on in the future . 
ENGLISH To summarise , the Ombudsman fulfils a very important function . 
ENGLISH I would like to congratulate him on the work he has carried out during the year and wish him luck in the future . 
ENGLISH Mr President , Commissioner , Mr Söderman , it may be well to remember that just a year and a half ago there was a debate in this Chamber over whether we needed a Committee on Petitions in general . 
ENGLISH I am very pleased to be able to say that the Committee on Petitions has again shown its indispensability , especially at a time like this , when we wish to enhance the status of the ordinary citizen in the European Union . 
ENGLISH I genuinely hope that the Commission on Petitions succeeds in establishing good levels of co - operation with the other committees in the coming year . 
ENGLISH I believe that we will be able to draft joint reports on the most important problem areas . 
ENGLISH With regard to the Ombudsman , he has truly established his position and independence . 
ENGLISH The growing number of grievances is an indication that the public have found him , and we members of the European Parliament have often been able to guide people in his direction to have their problems solved . 
ENGLISH Public access to documents is an issue that will occupy us in the future , and we have already had some valuable advice on the matter from the Ombudsman . 
ENGLISH Mr President , in one minute one cannot say much , so I am going to take this opportunity to summarise . 
ENGLISH Firstly , I wish to thank the rapporteur , Mrs Lambert , for taking up all our proposals in the debate . 
ENGLISH There are therefore not even any amendments . 
ENGLISH Secondly , I wish to say that at this stage nobody doubts that the Committee on Petitions and the Ombudsman make an extremely important contribution to compliance with Community law . 
ENGLISH Like Mrs Hautala , I am therefore very happy that the Committee on Petitions has survived the attempts to remove it , since , as well as demanding compliance with Community law , it is the committee which is closest to the citizens . 
ENGLISH It is the committee which makes the institutions most visible to the citizens . 
ENGLISH The greatest problem is probably the long procedure which follows a complaint by a citizen . 
ENGLISH The most important petitions deal with social and environmental issues , which are the matters of most concern . 
ENGLISH The speeding up of the process is therefore an important issue which has been taken up by Mrs Lambert . 
ENGLISH Mr President , the Radical Members of the Bonino List will support the two reports , and they value and support the work of the Ombudsman . 
ENGLISH In our opinion , this issue is relevant to all the institutions , having a bearing on Parliament 's own work as well . However , in particular , precisely because the Ombudsman wishes there to be as much focus as possible on his work , we feel that the possibility for the Ombudsman to attach an electronic signature could be the first step towards introducing the use of this vehicle within the institutions . 
ENGLISH I would just like to comment on an important statement which has not received due attention . 
ENGLISH The Ombudsman has told us that the Commission has made no progress this year in the area of transparency . Transparency is an effective weapon against fraud and corruption . 
ENGLISH In particular , on 7 December last , President Prodi undertook to find and propose legal and organisational solutions to give both internal and external candidates to Commission competitions access to their examination papers . 
ENGLISH Would the Ombudsman please inform us , in the same way that he has informed us that Europol needs more time to comply with the recommendation , whether the commitment made by President Prodi on 7 December to making papers available by 1 July 2000 has already been implemented or not . 
ENGLISH Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , I gather from the Ombudsman' - s Annual Report that , as we have now heard , the main complaint of the citizens is about lack of transparency . 
ENGLISH But it appears that not everyone concerned is aware of this problem . 
ENGLISH The Commission has submitted a proposal for a regulation on public access to documents which you , Mr Söderman , rightly criticised in public as not going far enough . 
ENGLISH Indeed there has been quite a lot written on the subject . 
ENGLISH The spirit underlying this proposal can be gauged from the statement by the Advisory Committee of Independent Experts . 
ENGLISH According to the experts' - second report , like all political institutions the Commission needs room to consider , to formulate policy before it becomes public , because policy that is made directly before the public eye is often bad policy . 
ENGLISH As a representative of the European public , I find this approach to questions of transparency and of policy - making in general unacceptable . 
ENGLISH Mr President , I would like to add my congratulations and thanks to the Ombudsman for the report which he has presented this year and also to Mrs Thors and Mrs Lambert for their reports to the Parliament . 
ENGLISH All these reports , particularly that of the Ombudsman , show the very reliable , dependable work that has been done over the year . 
ENGLISH I saw that at first hand when I attended the seminar in Paris . 
ENGLISH It was very good to see the respect in which the European Ombudsman is held by his colleagues , the national ombudsmen . 
ENGLISH On access to documents , we happen to think that the views of the Constitutional Affairs Committee are important , but that should not be taken to mean that we have any doubts at all about the principle that the Ombudsman must have access to documents . 
ENGLISH In that he has our full support . 
ENGLISH It is surprising that last year the Petitions Committee was at some risk and the report by Mrs Lambert shows the very good work that has been down by the Petitions Committee . 
ENGLISH With our chairman Mr Gemelli we are now looking at ways of making the Petitions Committee more effective and more efficient in the work it does on behalf of citizens . 
ENGLISH One of the important things that we will be bringing forward to the Parliament is a Code of Good Administrative Behaviour . 
ENGLISH It is important that citizens and the officials of the institutions know what is reasonable behaviour so that all have a standard to which they can refer . 
ENGLISH I would also like to thank the Commission for the support we have received in the Petitions Committee . That has been very good and very effective through the year . 
ENGLISH I hope under the French Presidency we will get the same support from the Council but that unfortunately has been lacking in the past . 
ENGLISH Mr President , I should like to start by congratulating the two rapporteurs on their interesting comments . 
ENGLISH With its ever widening circle of activities , covering a broad range of citizens' interests , the European Union is turning into a modern Leviathan , complete with the inevitable high - handedness which accompanies every administrative mechanism ; from certain points of view , it is becoming even more dangerous than the equivalent national government services . 
ENGLISH That is because control mechanisms have not kept pace with the increase in activities . 
ENGLISH There are three ways of blocking the dangers which result from this extensive administrative mechanism in the European Union . 
ENGLISH The proposal by the rapporteur , Mrs Thors , that the Commission include a section on reports and complaints in the annual report on Community law and the proposed organisational agreement making it easier for complaints to be examined quickly need to be followed up here . 
ENGLISH If the tenet of these proposals is extrapolated , the suggestion is that the European Parliament should , in the future , devote more time to these matters , which are equally important if it is to enhance its status and its right to aspire to codecision with the Council . 
ENGLISH In more general terms , it is time to see parliamentary control exercised on a different footing . 
ENGLISH The second way is to introduce the European Charter of Fundamental Rights as a binding charter guaranteeing European citizens immediate rights , both adjectival and substantive , which protect their interests fairly and which convert to the right to compensation in the event that their interests are attacked . 
ENGLISH The increasingly likely prospect of a Charter which amounts to no more than a declaration will obviously damage the credibility of the European Union which , while abundantly eloquent on the importance of transparency in the operation of its institutions as a basic policy objective and accessibility to European citizens as a basic factor in achieving it , shies from recognising the rudimentary mechanism needed in order to achieve these objectives . 
ENGLISH The third way is to strengthen and improve the role of the ombudsman , mainly by giving him easier access to all the documents needed in order to conduct an efficient investigation . 
ENGLISH At the same time , the wealth of material in his report should be closely studied and taken as the starting point for the changes which need to be made to the modus operandi of the Community institutions . 
ENGLISH I wish the ombudsman courage and good luck for the future . 
ENGLISH Mr President , I would like to start by thanking the European Ombudsman , Mr Söderman , the two rapporteurs , Mrs Lambert and Mrs Thors , all the members of the Committee on Petitions and the Secretariat . 
ENGLISH We started from the premise that the purpose of the institutions is to serve the citizens and that , therefore , any breach of the citizens' rights will lead to a loss of confidence in the institutions . 
ENGLISH We are currently required to create a complex , comprehensive , harmonious , functional legal framework , and we must therefore also create judicial mechanisms such as the Charter on Rights , a body of law establishing criminal , civil and administrative law , the agreement procedures for the mutual recognition of judgments passed by Member States , Europol and the sectoral agreements , the establishment of the European Fraud Investigation Office as a tool for investigating abuse of the law , the likely institution of the office of European Public Prosecutor which should be the investigating office of the Court of Justice , the separation of the careers of judges responsible for giving rulings and investigating magistrates , and the separation of criminal , civil and administrative responsibilities : all these are instruments which advance the progress of the European Union . 
ENGLISH Finally , we would like to request that , in a similar way to Parliament in the codecision procedure , the Committee on Petitions may be permitted to present its own justification for certain decisions , and we call for amendment of the Treaties in order to streamline the entire legal system and existing legislation . 
ENGLISH The Ombudsman controls power and solves disputes between those who hold power and those over whom power is exercised , and last year there were almost two thousand such cases . 
ENGLISH I would like to state seven principles . 
ENGLISH The bigger a union is , the greater the need for transparency . 
ENGLISH The newer it is the greater this need is , and the more complex it is , the greater the need for better transparency . 
ENGLISH The more multi - cultural it is the greater the transparency , and the more democratic it is the more open it likewise is . 
ENGLISH We are used to reading instructions for use with all equipment , down to how to use the whisk in the kitchen . 
ENGLISH The principles of good administration , which have been worthily established by the Ombudsman , are our citizens' - instructions for use with regard to Eurobureaucracy . 
ENGLISH There is no democracy without good administration , and that is why the Union Charter must contain the principles of good administration . 
ENGLISH I would like to make one more important point . Public access to documents in the information society and the principles concerning them must be upgraded in line with the new technology ; in other words , a grievance must be able to be made over the Internet and precedents and associated documents must be available in real time . 
ENGLISH My suggestion is that we need an Ombudsman' - s portal on the Net . 
ENGLISH Thank you for your work ! 
ENGLISH Mr President , as a member of the Committee on Petitions , I would particularly like to congratulate my fellow Member , Mrs Lambert , on her excellent report and I thank the European Commission for its valuable assistance in handling the petitions we receive . 
ENGLISH Petitions are a recognised right of European citizens and residents of the European Union , enabling them to take advantage of the rights given to them by the Treaties . 
ENGLISH Few citizens , however , are aware that they may submit a petition . 
ENGLISH The files that we handle , moreover , show a lack of understanding of the rights conferred by European citizenship . 
ENGLISH This , unfortunately , results in 50 % of petitions being inadmissible . 
ENGLISH Admissible petitions usually raise problems with freedom of movement , setting up businesses , social benefits , recognition of diplomas and qualifications and taxation . 
ENGLISH Furthermore , we are receiving more and more collective petitions concerning subjects relating to the environment , and with the extension of the competence of the European Union , it is conceivable that the number of such petitions and the number of areas handled will increase . 
ENGLISH In order to respond to citizens' - expectations , adequate coordination between the Committee on Petitions , the European institutions and national authorities is essential . 
ENGLISH Greater account must also be taken by the other parliamentary committees of the work carried out by our committee . 
ENGLISH The chronic absence of the Council from our committee meetings is detrimental to the correct handling of petitions . 
ENGLISH We are currently waiting too long for responses from the national authorities , sometimes even several years . 
ENGLISH We are fully aware of the extent of this task and the difficulties to be overcome . 
ENGLISH First of all , it cannot be denied that this committee is not very well known , although its work is indispensable in strengthening the link between citizens and the European Union . 
ENGLISH Furthermore , the structures and means of this committee must be strengthened in order to make it more effective , and a closer relationship with the petitions committees of the national authorities would be desirable . 
ENGLISH Finally , one of the strong points of the French Presidency' - s programme is a Europe that is closer to the citizens . 
ENGLISH The work of our committee falls within this sphere and it is up to us to make this expectation a reality . 
ENGLISH Mr President , I want to welcome Mr Söderman this morning and to congratulate Mrs Lambert and Mrs Thors for their reports . 
ENGLISH The reality of our society is that if governments and administrations had their way they would never appoint Petitions Committees or Ombudsmen . 
ENGLISH By nature they tend to be secretive . 
ENGLISH They are only there because the citizens and their public representatives demand them and defend them when they are there . 
ENGLISH Therefore , it is important that we continue to demand that the Ombudsman 's office and the Petitions Committee of Parliament are adequately resourced . 
ENGLISH In Parliament it is disgraceful that the Petitions Committee , the single most important direct contact that the citizen has with this institution and with the other institutions of the European Union , is treated the way it is treated . 
ENGLISH It does not have adequate secretarial assistance . 
ENGLISH It is treated abominably in relation to translations , which are down at the bottom of the list . 
ENGLISH It is simply not good enough . 
ENGLISH I would appeal to the Commission and to the Council if they were here -- they ignore the Petitions Committee , as well as ignoring Parliament -- to give the resources that are necessary for these bodies to do their job . 
ENGLISH The Petitions Committee in particular is an important mechanism of access for the people of Europe . 
ENGLISH It is important that we ensure that it can do its work effectively . 
ENGLISH The two most important issues that come before the Petitions Committee are the recognition of people 's qualifications to work in other Member States and the environmental impact of construction development . 
ENGLISH In particular , people are concerned that environment impact studies , which are required under EU law , are treated as having no more worth than the paper they are written on . 
ENGLISH They are either ignored or they do not address the real issues . 
ENGLISH Mr President , I would personally like to congratulate Jacob Söderman on the good work he has done , which resulted in his re - election on 27 October last year . 
ENGLISH At the same time , I would like to praise the Ombudsman for a model annual report which is easy - to - read and , at the same time , comprehensive . 
ENGLISH It can be seen from the report that it is the Commission that is the subject of the majority of the investigations that have been undertaken , 77 - percent to be precise . 
ENGLISH It should certainly be emphasised that this is mainly due to the fact that the Commission is the institution that makes the most decisions directly affecting citizens . 
ENGLISH In the report on individual complaints , it emerges , however , that there is insufficient transparency . 
ENGLISH Insufficient and inadequate information was also the most common cause of complaint . 
ENGLISH Openness is important if citizens are to be able to have more opportunity to influence how the EU operates and if tendencies to corruption , cheating and fraud are to be checked . 
ENGLISH I would like to highlight the fact that this report emphasises that all EU institutions and bodies must establish a Code of Good Administrative Behaviour . 
ENGLISH There is a risk , however , which is also evident from the Ombudsman' - s annual report , that the significance of such a code would vary considerably from one institution or body to another . 
ENGLISH The PR side of the Ombudsman' - s activities has already been brought up by other speakers and can never be underestimated . 
ENGLISH I would like to close with some questions : What would be the consequences of a Charter of Fundamental Rights for the Ombudsman' - s work ? 
ENGLISH What are the main reasons for the institutions' - shortcomings in relation to the citizens ? 
ENGLISH Is there a lack of will , are the resources insufficient or is there unreasonable bureaucracy which is preventing and delaying the handling of this issue ? 
ENGLISH Mr President , on the basis of the Ombudsman' - s report and that of Mrs Thors , we may say that the institution of the Ombudsman is well established . 
ENGLISH The Committee acknowledges the work done by Jacob Söderman , and the public too have discovered the Ombudsman . 
ENGLISH The basic pillars of the work of the Ombudsman are independence and transparency . 
ENGLISH It is just as pertinent to emphasise the importance of good administration for the public and for the authority of the EU in the eyes of our citizens . 
ENGLISH It is good that the committee supports the Ombudsman in his efforts to create regulations for good administration . 
ENGLISH The principle of good administration must also be included in the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights which is being drafted . 
ENGLISH From the report it appears that only around 30 % of the complaints to the Ombudsman fall within his sphere of responsibility . 
ENGLISH For that reason there has to be closer cooperation between the Ombudsman and national and regional ombudsmen . 
ENGLISH Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , it is a pleasure for me to participate in this debate today , together with Mr Söderman , the Ombudsman , whose work in the service of the citizens of the Union is very important . 
ENGLISH I wish to say that the Commission believes that the citizen should always be the focus of our concerns . 
ENGLISH The citizen is ultimately the beneficiary of our activities and is our raison d' - être . 
ENGLISH In this respect , both the Committee on Petitions and the Ombudsman play a key role , on different levels and with different purposes , but they are both nevertheless essential to the improvement of the operation of the institutions . 
ENGLISH The Committee on Petitions deals with the specific concerns of the citizens and , in this respect , as has been pointed out by Mrs Lambert -- who I warmly congratulate on her report -- the petitions presented to Parliament illustrate the problems of the citizens in relation to European administrations and also , in many cases , national administrations , at the same time highlighting the legislative vacuums which exist on both European and national levels . 
ENGLISH He urges us to improve the management and quality of services by indicating the weak points to us , the points which need improvement and greater attention . 
ENGLISH However , nobody wants a more effective and transparent administration as much as we do . It is we who are responsible for this administration and to this end any criticisms of our defects are welcome . 
ENGLISH We can only confront our defects if we know what they are . 
ENGLISH I must insist that this is why we give such importance to the work of both the Ombudsman and the Committee on Petitions ; so that the institutions may work properly . 
ENGLISH With regard to Mrs Lambert' - s report , I would like to deal with two specific issues . 
ENGLISH One of them , relating to cooperation between institutions , is essential to the improvement of the operation of the Committee on Petitions and its capacity for action . 
ENGLISH In this regard , I would like to express my satisfaction because the report highlights the constructive role of the Commission in the examination of petitions and because it considers it to be satisfactory on the whole . 
ENGLISH It awards us a sort of - 'pass' - , and I thank you , but we will try to improve . 
ENGLISH We see this is as a stimulus to make a greater effort , to work better and cooperate more . 
ENGLISH Secondly , it proposes a review of the examination procedures of the Committee on Petitions . 
ENGLISH It seems to me a great idea to rearrange the examination of petitions by themes , to give specialised rapporteurs the task of examining these petitions with greater care , and , where necessary , to draw conclusions which will allow the deficiencies to be corrected , take decisions to resolve possible vacuums in legislative texts , or counteract the unwanted effects of these texts . 
ENGLISH It is true that we sometimes take a long time to reply . 
ENGLISH It is not always the Commission' - s fault . There are times when we are relying on responses from national administrations , but it is true that in this respect we have to make an effort to improve and make an even more satisfactory contribution to the work of this committee . 
ENGLISH I would like to highlight the importance of cooperation with other administrations . We wish to improve this cooperation as far as possible . 
ENGLISH The Commission is open to dialogue , both with Parliament , and with the Council itself , in order to reduce the time taken to produce replies and increase transparency and communication with Parliament and the Committee on Petitions . 
ENGLISH With regard to the Thors report , I wish to say that we agree with the need to consolidate the independence of the Ombudsman as an institution and support his work towards transparency and openness . 
ENGLISH We also accept the definition of maladministration as being when a public body does not act in accordance with a rule or principle which is binding upon it . 
ENGLISH Nevertheless , I wish to say that , as Mr Söderman has pointed out very well , the Ombudsman is a non - judicial body , and in that sense , it can in no way substitute judicial bodies . 
ENGLISH Its tasks are different from those of law courts . 
ENGLISH I believe that it is very important , in the relations between the Commission , the Ombudsman and other institutions and bodies , to systematically respect the institutional balance laid down in the Treaties . 
ENGLISH It is true that the increasing reality of the institution of the Ombudsman , which in some ways is a younger institution than some of the other European institutions , requires some time to mature so that the citizens may become aware of it . 
ENGLISH The Ombudsman , in his report , has indicated that the number of complaints , investigations and inquiries over the last year have increased considerably , and this is simply the result of greater awareness of the institution on the part of the citizens . 
ENGLISH We also need time for the relations between the Ombudsman and the other institutions to mature in order to establish the desired balances and resolve the obvious tensions which may occur until things are working properly . 
ENGLISH However , I must say that , so far , the cooperation between the Commission and the institution of the Ombudsman , represented , of course , by Mr Söderman , has been wonderful . 
ENGLISH I would like very briefly to point out that these institutions are important because any action by an administration may at some time display a lack of transparency , a lack of efficiency , a violation of basic rights or even corruption . 
ENGLISH However , I wish to say that in no way can we portray the Community administration as particularly laden with defects . 
ENGLISH If we compare it with other administrations , I believe that it compares very favourably and that we score highly in these areas . 
ENGLISH Ladies and gentlemen , finally , I would like once again to congratulate the Ombudsman , Mr Söderman , on the work which he is doing , on the significant increase in his actions and his work , on his cooperation , although he sometimes makes criticisms , but that is his job and his role , and we in the Commission understand that . 
ENGLISH The drawing up of a code of conduct applicable to the relations between Community officials and the citizens is a priority , and work is being done in that area by Mr Kinnock and the Commission in general . 
ENGLISH With regard to the amendments of the Statute of the Ombudsman , the competent parliamentary committee must issue an opinion in accordance with Article 195 of the Treaty , and when Parliament takes the initiative , we will analyse all the relevant issues . 
ENGLISH I would like once again to congratulate the two rapporteurs , and of course congratulate and thank Mr Söderman for the magnificent work which he is carrying out with independence and rigour . 
ENGLISH Mr President , I am grateful to you for giving me the floor to answer questions . 
ENGLISH Mr Turco asked about the right to complain by e - mail . 
ENGLISH This has been possible with the European Ombudsman 's office for some years now , since Mr Dell'Alba made us recognise that this would be important . 
ENGLISH At the moment about 20 % of the complaints we receive are by e - mail . 
ENGLISH If you look at our website you will find a form which can be sent directly by e - mail . 
ENGLISH Mr Paasilinna said the website could be developed in that direction . 
ENGLISH I should like to stress that this draft regulation is now before Parliament . 
ENGLISH The committee work can start . 
ENGLISH In the discussions I have had with Mr Prodi he told me that he is ready to consider favourably all well - founded proposals to improve this regulation . 
ENGLISH This is now before Parliament . 
ENGLISH Mr Malmström mentioned ignorance about the Ombudsman 's office in some Member States . 
ENGLISH Our difficulty has been that , if we make too much propaganda about ourselves , we get too many complaints falling outside our mandate . 
ENGLISH So we try to find those citizens who have a problem with the administration and might have reason to complain . 
ENGLISH Members of Parliament are a very important source of information for many citizens . 
ENGLISH I would be very glad if you would take part in the work of making the opportunities for submitting petitions and complaints better known to the citizens . 
ENGLISH Thank you kindly , Mr Söderman . 
ENGLISH The debate is closed . 
ENGLISH The vote will take place today at 12 noon . 
ENGLISH Single European sky 
ENGLISH The next item is the report ( A5 - 0141 / 2000 ) by Mr Atkins , on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy , Transport and Tourism , on the Commission communication to the Council and the European Parliament on the creation of the single European sky [ COM ( 1999 ) 614 -- C5 - 0085 / 2000 -- 2000 / 2053 ( COS ) ] . 
ENGLISH Mr President , we meet at a time when congestion in our skies has never been greater . 
ENGLISH According to the statistics , the incidence of a 15 - minute delay has risen from 12.7 % in 1991 to 30.3 % in 1999 and is still rising . 
ENGLISH We are worried not only about the effects that congestion has in terms of inconvenience and the implications for the economic stability of our Union , but we are also concerned first and foremost about threats to safety that may result from it . 
ENGLISH It is a fact that there is a shortage of air traffic controllers . 
ENGLISH The demand for air transport is rising almost daily because of cheap fares , the desire of people to travel abroad on holiday and on business or even to be able to take a few days' break at the drop of a hat has added to this pressure . 
ENGLISH Whilst this pressure has been growing , we owe it to those working in the system to congratulate them and thank them for what they have done . 
ENGLISH Unfortunately -- and this is not entirely their fault -- they are not coping with the pressures as well as we would wish : we have all had experience of that only recently , as a result of the delays caused by the strike in France . 
ENGLISH All this , then , has a detrimental effect upon the mobility of our citizens , and in terms of the economic and financial and social costs for our businesses and a wide variety of other people affected on a day - to - day basis by what is going on . 
ENGLISH I would like to congratulate Commissioner Palacio for having the initiative to bring this to our committee in the terms that she did , and with the force and verve that she has shown , initially , in setting up the high level group , and also in the leadership that she has given to addressing this problem . 
ENGLISH The Council of Transport Ministers needs to take a political decision to address this . 
ENGLISH We cannot put it off any longer . 
ENGLISH It needs attention now . 
ENGLISH Military airspace and its abuse in some countries is something that we also have to address not just in terms of the space that is taken up by military aircraft , but also on occasions the abuse of the civil air corridors by military aircraft not abiding by civil air procedures . 
ENGLISH This too is an area which need to be addressed . 
ENGLISH In this report I have proposed -- and the committee has broadly accepted -- a suggestion that Eurocontrol should be a regulatory body with more powers , more effective sanctions and with the right of appeal for those who are affected by it . 
ENGLISH By the same token , we think that the provision of air traffic services should be open to liberalisation , subject to what each individual country decides is appropriate for itself . 
ENGLISH As Members may well know , in the United Kingdom we have addressed the subject by introducing a principle of privatisation . 
ENGLISH That may be right for us . 
ENGLISH It may be wrong for others . 
ENGLISH It is up to individual nation states to decide , but they must decide to address this problem of the division between regulation of their airspace on the one hand and the air service management provision that could be offered by others or other organisations . 
ENGLISH We do believe that there should be objective and independent criteria on how the system is managed , with incentives offered for the achievers and penalties offered for those who do not meet the desired levels . 
ENGLISH We think that passengers should be compensated for unjust delays and that their rights in these cases should be clear and well known . 
ENGLISH But above all we wish Commissioner Palacio , with our support , to press the Council of Ministers and all those associated with this to take urgent decisions . 
ENGLISH If there is one across - the - board criticism of the report from the industry , it is that perhaps it does not go far or fast enough . 
ENGLISH This cannot last any longer . 
ENGLISH We must address this issue now . 
ENGLISH Mr President , I would like , if I may , to deliver very briefly a few comments on this report . 
ENGLISH It seems obvious that we need to completely rethink the organisation of air traffic control in the European sky . 
ENGLISH In this respect , the Commission' - s initiative is commendable . 
ENGLISH A re - think is one thing , it is also obvious that everything must be carefully reviewed , but I think we should beware of a certain number of preconceived ideas found in reports , communications and speeches on this topic . 
ENGLISH It also seems obvious that the political division of the European sky no longer corresponds to the technical requirements and market requirements . 
ENGLISH I was extremely surprised to learn that in today' - s Europe , political boundaries still prevail when it comes to the organisation of air traffic control . 
ENGLISH A European air traffic control space must be created , but must this area be completely unified , and according to which criteria ? 
ENGLISH I have many doubts as to the conclusions of the report . 
ENGLISH It seems obvious to me that there are a number of advantages to dividing up air traffic control , as air traffic control involves segmenting the territory and technical security limits , but also human limitations mean that each air traffic controller , each control tower can only have a limited territory and a limited number of flights to monitor . 
ENGLISH In this respect , the cellular , segmented organisation of the European territory must be retained and , in a way , improved . 
ENGLISH I am therefore in favour of an increase in the number of air traffic control centres as , not the unification of the whole control system , but the unification of the legal system and also technological unification takes place , as this report , and the research behind the report , have highlighted the absence of European will & # x2026 ; 
ENGLISH Mr President , Madam Vice - President , ladies and gentlemen , first I want to give very warm thanks to my colleague Robert Atkins for drafting such an excellent report . 
ENGLISH He took great trouble not just to comment on the Commission' - s proposals but also to outline them . 
ENGLISH I regard the broad line of separating the regulatory from the operational function as the right one . 
ENGLISH Indeed in paragraphs 4 and 5 we note again that our Parliament has now decided on two occasions that the regulatory function is to be transferred to the European Union . 
ENGLISH That brings me back to the last speaker . 
ENGLISH Nor is that in any way a problem . 
ENGLISH Today we have 15 Member States in the European Union , and 12 more have applied to join . 
ENGLISH If we start to proceed according to the EEA system even at this point -- defining the common rules and then asking the candidate states their opinion -- we can integrate them . 
ENGLISH That is why I also think it is a good idea in the present situation for the European Commission to pool Member States' - interests in regard to the regulatory function in the framework of Eurocontrol . 
ENGLISH We do not need multilingualism , we need unanimity on the question of the regulatory function . 
ENGLISH I really would strongly urge the Commissioner to refer the proposals Parliament will be deciding on today back to the High Level Group and to continue ensuring that this working group produces very sound practical results . 
ENGLISH We have great respect for the vice - president , for she set up this group of military and civilian experts and the work is progressing well . 
ENGLISH There may still be some resistance in individual countries . 
ENGLISH We wish the vice - president much luck and success , so that come October we can submit an excellent programme . 
ENGLISH Mr President , can I first of all , on behalf of the Party of European Socialists , welcome the Commissioner 's initiative . 
ENGLISH We share her objectives , we support her aims . 
ENGLISH However , we do perhaps regret the lack of integration with other initiatives that she is pursuing , which is apparent if one reads her communication . 
ENGLISH We also note the lack of political will that exists within both the Commission and the Council , although it is worth perhaps reminding ourselves that this initiative started with the Council in June last year when it requested the Commissioner to bring forward this communication . 
ENGLISH Indeed in March of this year , the Council in Lisbon sought further progress , progress which I am sure we would all endorse . 
ENGLISH The Party of European Socialists also supports and indeed welcomes the rapporteur 's carefully judged position . 
ENGLISH It is subsidiarity in action : European where necessary , national where possible . 
ENGLISH I would like to thank him personally for taking on board many of our concerns , not least in the area of safety , which I acknowledge is now the number one priority for him in his report . 
ENGLISH The key concerns of the PSE include a regret at the lack of analysis of the real cause of air traffic delays . 
ENGLISH Airports' runway capacity , airline planning , passenger behaviour , airport infrastructure , as well as the shortage of controllers which was mentioned by the rapporteurs . 
ENGLISH A second concern of ours is this key principle , which we support and which needs to be developed further , namely the separation of regulation from service providers . 
ENGLISH That has to be a key building block of our new approach . 
ENGLISH The third principle we support is liberalisation but not privatisation ; and fourth and finally we want to see these proposals developed in conjunction with the proposed European Aviation Safety Authority . 
ENGLISH Between 1986 and 1996 air traffic in Europe doubled . 
ENGLISH It will double again in the coming ten years . 
ENGLISH We need to tackle this issue urgently and swiftly but in a coherent way . 
ENGLISH What we want to hear perhaps from the Commissioner today is a clear timetable from her as to the speed at which she will be acting in the months to come . 
ENGLISH We all know there will be people waiting in airport lounges this summer asking , why their plane is delayed , not for minutes but for hours . 
ENGLISH Hopefully the Commissioner today can bring forward a timetable for when those delays will cease . 
ENGLISH I look forward to her comments , particularly bringing this Parliament up to date on the conclusions last week of the Council which received the interim report of the high level group . 
ENGLISH I urge colleagues to back the rapporteur 's proposal and I urge the Commissioner to bring forward a very clear timetable . 
ENGLISH Mr President , Commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , Sir Robert Atkins has , in my view , compiled a sound report . 
ENGLISH He clearly indicated the direction we need to take , because we find ourselves in an absurd situation where we have a unified market for aviation but over and above that , we have an airspace , which has been divided up in an illogical manner . 
ENGLISH A number of MEPs have already described the effects of that . 
ENGLISH It is obvious that , if we want a single sky , we need to make investments , as the report clearly states . 
ENGLISH Thousands of people need to be recruited and investments made in technical infrastructure . 
ENGLISH As such , it is clear that money has to be earmarked for this . 
ENGLISH We need to tackle the issue at European level . 
ENGLISH We are all agreed that Member States need to finally decide for themselves what they want do . 
ENGLISH Needless to say , services need to come first , because air - traffic control does not exist in isolation . It is a service to airline companies and its customers . 
ENGLISH People sometimes overlook this aspect and only focus on their own patch . 
ENGLISH We are all agreed on this , and I therefore hope that we can make good progress . 
ENGLISH An important point , as Mr Watts has already pointed out , is safety . 
ENGLISH Nobody should compromise on safety . 
ENGLISH As such , Commissioner , what matters more than anything is that once the high - level group has published its findings in October , we need to receive proposals from yourself as quickly as possible . I do not think that this will cause any problems for you . 
ENGLISH Then , everyone will need to put pressure on the Council of Ministers , Member States will need to take decisions that need to be taken and take the course which we have indicated a few times in the European Parliament and which is once again highlighted in Sir Robert Atkins' - report . 
ENGLISH Mr President , the report deals with the problem of increasing air traffic . 
ENGLISH I want to focus on just one aspect of this report or , more specifically , on a major omission from it . 
ENGLISH A number of proposals are put forward but for me the problem with this report is its main thesis that congestion can just be solved with the liberalisation of the air traffic management and control system . 
ENGLISH What the options are doing is focusing on technical fixes , not the underlying trends . 
ENGLISH Certainly a single European sky would increase the efficiency with which European air space is used . 
ENGLISH Improvements in air traffic management would make more space available . 
ENGLISH Restricting the use of military air space would also make a significant difference . 
ENGLISH But none of these technical fixes are going to make a long - term impact unless we address the underlying problem , which is the unsustainable growth of air traffic . 
ENGLISH By failing to link the issue of congestion with air traffic reduction the report misses out on a vital strategy . 
ENGLISH It can be compared to rearranging buckets under the tap to stop a flood without considering the possibility of at least turning down the tap a little to reduce the flow of water . 
ENGLISH Consider the facts . 
ENGLISH The Commission 's recent report has already said the growth of the aviation sector is unsustainable and must be reversed and that growth is forecast to double in the next 15 years . 
ENGLISH That causes major congestion problems but it also causes major environmental problems as well -- not only the noise and pollution for people living around the airports but also the impact on global climate . 
ENGLISH Unfortunately this report fails to make the vital link between congestion and air traffic reduction and therefore misses a vital opportunity to address these problems in a lasting manner . 
ENGLISH Mr President , Commissioner , I think there is some ambiguity regarding the expression - & # x2018 ; single European sky & # x2019 ; - , because air traffic control is in fact , as you are well aware , already a European field of activity . 
ENGLISH There is already a European system for controlling the air space with Eurocontrol and there is already a body , the Central Flow Management Unit , based in Brussels . 
ENGLISH This is not perfect , of course , but they do already exist . 
ENGLISH The situation must therefore be improved starting with the statement , which is patently obvious , that delays have increased and that with traffic on the rise , they will become worse . 
ENGLISH I believe it would be sensible also to concentrate far more on the problems of types of plane , types of flow , stopovers and of course the continuing defence - related problems . 
ENGLISH Mr Zimeray said this earlier : yes , a plane journey is divided into different areas and the denser the traffic , the more divisions there are . 
ENGLISH Why ? 
ENGLISH Because dividing things into different areas is the human way of controlling or managing a number of aircraft . 
ENGLISH Therefore , in my opinion , thinking that there would be too many control centres is nonsense . 
ENGLISH Why not say in that case that there are too many aircraft ? 
ENGLISH In addition , as far as I know , there are no specific air traffic control hold - ups at borders either . 
ENGLISH The great proposal that is put to us for improving traffic consists of separating regulatory and control functions . 
ENGLISH But what is the value of such a measure ? 
ENGLISH It may well be necessary to consider more relevant divisions , why not ? 
ENGLISH The separation of functions would lead to the liberalisation of air traffic service provision , establishing , as indeed the Atkins report states , a liberalised internal market . 
ENGLISH Air traffic control is not an airline , nor is it a market sector . 
ENGLISH Let it not be forgotten that its main function is to ensure safety . 
ENGLISH I believe , however , that it is contrary to the interests of safety to subject aircraft control and monitoring bodies to market pressure . 
ENGLISH The ability to invest in new technological tools and training must therefore be safeguarded . 
ENGLISH In France -- and I am not trying to make France a model -- there is a general directorate that governs everything and , in the past few years , investments have been made and air traffic controllers have been recruited . 
ENGLISH The system is highly effective . 
ENGLISH On what grounds would you want to break.. . 
ENGLISH ( The President cut the speaker off ) 
ENGLISH Mr President , this report takes as its starting point an observation which is familiar to all Members of the European Parliament , as frequent users of aircraft as a means of transport : the skies are becoming more and more congested as a result of the growing demand for this form of transport . 
ENGLISH This surfeit of aircraft inevitably goes hand in hand with delays in air traffic , causing frustration for passengers , for companies , for business and for tourism . 
ENGLISH We share the rapporteur' - s opinion that air transport must be seen as a coherent system of operators , airports and air traffic control services , the component parts of which are directly interlinked and that only a study of this system as a whole will solve the problems of airspace capacity . 
ENGLISH We therefore welcome the creation of the High Level Working Group , comprising both civilian and military representatives and chaired by Commissioner de Palacio , who has committed herself to studying the issue of flight delays with a view to minimising the problems they cause . 
ENGLISH She will in due course be submitting a report on this issue to the Council . 
ENGLISH Our hope is that this final report will focus on drawing up viable proposals and practical , realistic and effective solutions to the problem of air traffic delays in Europe . We also hope that this report will abandon controversial suggestions that contribute very little to achieving this , such as advocating unrestricted competition between providers of air traffic management services . 
ENGLISH We fail to see the connection between this so - called liberalisation and the issue of delays , which must be resolved as a matter of urgency . 
ENGLISH Furthermore , any proposed solutions must respect the national sovereignty of the Member States and restrict the centralisation of regulatory action to absolutely essential matters . Any proposed solutions must also safeguard the particular requirements of defence and the specific military needs of each country and honour the commitments that all countries have made in the framework of international organisations . 
ENGLISH This does not mean that those countries are not obliged to make air traffic in high air space as flexible as possible and to seek more efficient ways of linking this with military operational needs . 
ENGLISH The European air management programme , whose purpose is to achieve complete coordination and integration of ATM systems at European level , must also continue to be expanded under Eurocontrol . The programme must be continued , because the problem lies not so much in the way air space is divided up , which could perhaps be justified in terms of ensuring that there is an appropriate number of aircraft and routes for each controller , as in the technical harmonisation of ATM systems . 
ENGLISH Mr President , this is a valuable report : it deals with a very sensitive and , I would say , extremely technical issue , although the problem is essentially political . 
ENGLISH One basic fact stands out in particular : the United States only operates one central air traffic control system while in Europe there are still 15 separate control systems . 
ENGLISH We also have to take Switzerland into account as well as the border countries . All these factors are difficulties which we will have to overcome . 
ENGLISH It is therefore right to call for a single air traffic control system , at least for the whole of the European Union , which clearly needs to include Switzerland for technical reasons . 
ENGLISH This is the basic point and it will enable us to resolve a number of difficulties as well as promote technical development , and here I am referring to the TCAS , GPS and GNNS systems , which clearly facilitate a more even flow of air traffic . 
ENGLISH I would like to finish by expressing some doubts regarding the application of the principle of subsidiarity : it is a fundamental principle but one which is not always easy to apply . 
ENGLISH Along with shipping regulations , air transport and air traffic regulations could genuinely be described as the most international rules in existence , and it is therefore difficult to break the matter down into different areas of responsibility . 
ENGLISH One last thing : I see that the report principally targets the large air carriers and airlines . 
ENGLISH Let us not disregard other air space users such as air - taxis , private companies and private users flying club aircraft . 
ENGLISH Mr President , Commissioner , securing a place in the transport market is an uphill struggle . 
ENGLISH This is the situation which the aviation sector currently faces . 
ENGLISH We need to consider the future of the sector for the reasons set out above . 
ENGLISH In my opinion , we should not accept unlimited growth as a fait accompli . 
ENGLISH It is true that certain freight cannot be transported in a way other than by air , but the vast majority of freight can . 
ENGLISH We should tailor our policy accordingly . 
ENGLISH This , however , requires long - term efforts and specific , effective investments in alternatives . 
ENGLISH We are not that far advanced yet . Indeed , the development of the Trans - European Networks has been a mixed success . 
ENGLISH We now need to look for alternative solutions in the short - term . 
ENGLISH In my view , what matters most is using the available space in the most effective way , both in terms of airspace and aircraft , which requires both personnel and organisational measures , as pointed out by the rapporteur . 
ENGLISH By creating one single European sky , we will provisionally have enough airspace to allow us to come up with structural measures to impede the unbridled growth of aviation , based on the current state of affairs . 
ENGLISH It is important not only to facilitate , but also to restrict where necessary . 
ENGLISH Although the rapporteur' - s initiatives are sound , it is early days and we should not rest on our laurels . We should keep thinking about the future of the transport sector and aviation , in particular . 
ENGLISH Mr Atkins' report addresses an issue which is perhaps the most important issue which either Mrs de Palacio or we in the European Parliament will have to deal with over the next four or five years and I must start by congratulating Mr Atkins on his approach in this specific report . 
ENGLISH Despite which , there is clearly a huge problem here . 
ENGLISH Overall delays in flights have risen from 12.7 % in 1991 to 30 % in 1999 . 
ENGLISH By 2010, the number of flights will have more or less doubled , resulting in wasted time , financial loss , saturation and , hence , safety risks . 
ENGLISH Eurocontrol has proven to be inadequate as a mechanism for managing air traffic . 
ENGLISH It is therefore absolutely essential that Vice - President de Palacio take decisive action , as she has done so far , in order to establish a real single European sky . 
ENGLISH The Member States must overcome their perhaps justified anxiety as regards the management of their airspace and , at some point , must take a longer - term view of newly - emerging needs which goes beyond their borders and beyond the present situation . 
ENGLISH We need to take immediate action and to regulate the myriad technical details , such as relations between civil and military aviation . 
ENGLISH In the meantime , however , passengers must be compensated for delays by airlines and must , of course , be apprised of their rights . 
ENGLISH I should like to close my intervention by reminding the House that , when the European Parliament voted on the report for the Intergovernmental Conference , it took view that the regulatory operation of air traffic in Europe , in our Member States , should be taken over by the European Union . 
ENGLISH Mr President , I thank Mr Atkins for his report and also for his willingness to cooperate and work with not only my group but other groups in coming up with this document . 
ENGLISH A visit to any of the major airports at this time of year will make that obvious . 
ENGLISH I hear that the average delay is said to be 20 minutes . 
ENGLISH All I can say from my experience is that somebody must be picking on Manchester very badly because I have not yet flown with Sabena from Brussels to Manchester when we have ever got anywhere near a 20 - minute delay . 
ENGLISH I can safely say that the timetable now is just a mere guide , not a definitive object , when planning travel . 
ENGLISH It is a clear problem that we need to address . 
ENGLISH The report must consider all the issues involving air traffic and adopt a twofold approach as proposed by the Commission . 
ENGLISH But not all delays are due to air traffic controls . 
ENGLISH It is the greatest cop - out in the world for airlines to say to passengers that the delay is caused by air traffic . 
ENGLISH There is never anybody from the air traffic controllers in the airport to turn around and say that is not true . 
ENGLISH Frankly , a lot of the delays are caused by the inefficiencies of some of the airlines themselves . 
ENGLISH Passengers go missing . 
ENGLISH What do these people get up to , I ask myself ? 
ENGLISH The issue of Eurocontrol is important . 
ENGLISH We support the compromise that is made in point 8 with regard to Eurocontrol . 
ENGLISH Finally , there are some TDI amendments with this . 
ENGLISH I am particularly interested in Amendment No 24 . 
ENGLISH I can only assume that the TDI group must.. . 
ENGLISH ( The President cut the speaker off ) 
ENGLISH Mr President , I would also like to thank the rapporteur for an excellent report . 
ENGLISH Experiences from last Monday reconfirm that this is a very important report indeed . 
ENGLISH Many Members of Parliament had a journey here to Strasbourg of up to fifteen hours . 
ENGLISH This situation is absolutely intolerable . Airspace is badly congested , flights are continually late and the rights of air passengers are totally non - existent . 
ENGLISH The report proposes relevant action that must be put into effect right away . 
ENGLISH However , I do not believe that it will be sufficient , as air traffic is expected to double over the next ten years . 
ENGLISH Short flight routes must be withdrawn in favour of rail , leaving room for longer flights , as there are simply no alternatives to these . 
ENGLISH Reports aimed at improving the competitiveness of rail transport are , from this point of view , very important . 
ENGLISH Environmental levies , which are being planned for air traffic , should not constrict long flights unfairly , but should work as an incentive to withdraw short flights in favour of rail . 
ENGLISH Mr President , Commissioner , with globalisation we have discovered with pleasure that , above all , aeroplanes can take us from our own city to any corner of the world , and we have enjoyed this so much that we can no longer live without flying . 
ENGLISH However , just as we discovered the congestion of our cities by motor vehicle , it is now airspace which is becoming clogged too frequently . We regularly suffer delays , we lose our luggage and we have suffered all kinds of work - to - rule or trade union strikes . 
ENGLISH We passengers believe that we must establish and defend our rights and manage our airlines , airports , flight timetables and air traffic control better . 
ENGLISH However , we often also think that we have to share the sovereignty of the air more amongst all the Europeans and that there is a large section of the airspace with is reserved which we do not take social advantage of in the way that our times demand . 
ENGLISH Therefore , as well as reforming Eurocontrol , increasing the number of radio communication frequencies and implementing new and better technologies for tracking so that more air corridors and more planes can be fitted in , in these days of normality it is necessary for civil commercial aviation to be able to use the reserved spaces , especially in the highest quotas and highest altitudes , which do not usually have too much military use . 
ENGLISH Mr President , Commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , like the rapporteur and the previous speaker I think we urgently need to take the appropriate measures to tackle and eventually put a stop to the constant increase in delays in European air traffic . 
ENGLISH Sir Robert Atkins , for whose expertise I have enormous regard , and a majority in the Committee on Regional Policy , Transport and Tourism believe the prime way to achieve this objective is through liberalisation measures . 
ENGLISH Liberalisation will without doubt increase the number of providers , but it will not resolve certain problems and will even create new ones . 
ENGLISH Firstly , so long as the Member States give precedence to their justified national interests over the general European interest in regard to the coordination and use of European airspace , we will see no radical changes . 
ENGLISH Secondly , that is another reason for Eurocontrol' - s poor efficiency . 
ENGLISH Thirdly , priority must be given to the civil use of airspace . 
ENGLISH In a peaceful and united Europe there is not one logical reason for reserving a large part of airspace for the military . 
ENGLISH Mr President , Mr Atkins' - report raises a number of real problems in the development of the air travel system in Europe . 
ENGLISH First of all , the matter of safety . 
ENGLISH The strikes that sometimes disrupt traffic take thousands of passengers hostage without proper warning . 
ENGLISH Increasing numbers of intolerable delays are not , as has already been stated , solely due to overcrowding in the sky , but to also the airlines' - attempt , for reasons of cost - effectiveness , to rotate their planes with excessively short , unreasonable and ultimately impossible turnarounds . 
ENGLISH The report , however , omits to bring up one fundamental issue : the issue of traffic rights . 
ENGLISH At the present time , it is extremely difficult for a European company with a line serving , for example , Paris , Houston and San Francisco , to board passengers in California , as this is legally considered as cabotage , whereas an American company serving New York , Madrid or Paris , may board passengers in Spain for disembarkation in Europe . 
ENGLISH It is in the international negotiation of traffic rights that this concept of European air space & # x2026 ; 
ENGLISH ( The President cut the speaker off ) 
ENGLISH Mr President , it has been noted that air transport is increasingly accessible to a greater number of our fellow citizens . 
ENGLISH The desire to create optimum air traffic control in Europe is based on good intentions , but why should the Commission challenge the air policies of the Member States and their bilateral agreements through a single air space ? 
ENGLISH Of course , I agree , on the one hand , with the goal of rationalising the movement of aircraft and , on the other hand , with the goal of aiming for improved traffic flow , while fully respecting consumer protection and passenger safety . 
ENGLISH I would like to believe Mrs Palacio when she assures us that , and I quote , there is - & # x2018 ; no reference to creating competition between air traffic control services or their privatisation in the works of the Commission & # x2019 ; - . 
ENGLISH But in that case , the staff concerned would have no justifiable need of trade unions ? 
ENGLISH The Commission is demanding the advent of a proper air traffic management authority , a strong regulatory authority . I say no . 
ENGLISH No to a complete overhaul of Eurocontrol . 
ENGLISH No to a new regulatory structure -- after all , the current system effectively organises , particularly with regard to safety , a balanced flow of traffic while respecting the national systems which all states are entitled to . No to the Commission representing the Member States with regard to external States , thereby destroying any political decision - making power in the field of air transport . 
ENGLISH Mr President , Madam Vice - President of the Commission , both the Commission' - s communication and the rapporteur' - s report , which is magnificent , are in line with the European Council of Lisbon , which asked the Commission for a series of specific proposals as soon as possible . 
ENGLISH It is now for the Council to take the necessary and urgent political decisions which will allow the single aviation market to be supplemented with a single air traffic control system . 
ENGLISH The growth in demand currently stands at between 5 % and 7 % and it seems that it will follow the same trend over the next few years . This makes it even more difficult for the European air management systems to do their work , since they have shown themselves to be incapable of dealing with this development and they are the cause of 50 % of delays , although it is true that there are other causes , such as the limitations of the airports and flight schedules which do not take account of the limitations of the infrastructures . 
ENGLISH Another cause which makes the current system ineffective is the different organisation of the civil system and the military system , as well as the different standards of technical equipment on the ground . 
ENGLISH However , the mere fact that a crisis may occur does not mean that certain Member States can justify maintaining the conditions which prevailed during the cold war . 
ENGLISH It is necessary for the civil and military controllers in the control centres to work in close cooperation . 
ENGLISH There is a clear need to achieve more effective cooperation between the different users of the airspace , and I believe that that cooperation and a joint approach should be sought at European level . 
ENGLISH Mr Atkins' - report is detailed and balanced , and it presents the current and correct position of this House . 
ENGLISH Lastly , Madam Vice - President , please take note that we are aware of your efforts and we will support you in the line you have taken . 
ENGLISH Mr President , I must express major reservations with regard to the Atkins report as it bears the stamp of commercial interests concealed behind the best of intentions . 
ENGLISH In actual fact , the airlines would like the air traffic control sector to be completely liberalised , not so much for reasons of safety , interoperability or reducing delays as to be able to access a market of air traffic control services that would enable the more powerful among them to purchase more expensive , secure slots and leave the problem of delays to other airlines and private aviation . 
ENGLISH Under cover of a single sky , such liberalisation would actually offer us a multispeed sky . 
ENGLISH I have no other way of explaining the witch hunt undertaken in this report with regard to civil air traffic control alone . 
ENGLISH We all know that this only represents 30 % of delays , which admittedly are worth combating , but which essentially depend on military constraints . 
ENGLISH This is a political problem that depends first and foremost on politicians . 
ENGLISH We all know that the considerable increase in air traffic is the main underlying cause of overcrowded and saturated skies . 
ENGLISH We all know that the number of runways and landing platforms would have to be reduced in order to have any chance of a break , a simple break in the saturation . 
ENGLISH Finally , in my country , the airlines have chosen to set up shuttles that send a dozen low - capacity aircraft from each provincial French town every morning between 6.00 a.m. and 8.30 a.m. to Paris alone . 
ENGLISH Is it the fault of air traffic control if they refuse to allow all these flights to land simultaneously in Paris ? 
ENGLISH These are the fundamental causes of air delays . 
ENGLISH Naturally , the single sky must be set up through a reformed Eurocontrol and harmonised control services at European level . 
ENGLISH However , personally I cannot imagine collective safety services that are dictated by profit alone , controlled by shareholders . 
ENGLISH In addition , I cannot imagine tomorrow' - s single European sky becoming an sky shared unfairly between airlines . 
ENGLISH Commissioner , I hope that , in preparing the future directive on the single sky , the Commission will be able to handle this matter by taking a calmer and more impartial overall view . 
ENGLISH Mr President , I am acting as the representative of the air traffic controllers protesting against the European Commission proposal which , in the name of the attractive slogan - & # x2018 ; single European sky & # x2019 ; - , will clear the way for the privatisation of air traffic control . 
ENGLISH The Atkins report clears the way for the monopoly of private groups that have their eye on air traffic control which , with the increase in traffic , is likely to make money . 
ENGLISH This reports mentions delays , which are , apparently , increasingly frequent . 
ENGLISH But how would subjecting air traffic control to the requirements of private profit possibly put an end to delays ? 
ENGLISH It is precisely the airlines' - quest for profit that has led them to make the choices that cause these delays . 
ENGLISH It is in the interests of passengers and their safety , and in the interests of employees in this sector for air traffic control to remain a public service , dedicated exclusively to ensuring the smooth running of air traffic . 
ENGLISH Competition and the quest for profit in an area as sensitive as air traffic control will inevitably lead to disaster . 
ENGLISH If it is necessary to put an end to national peculiarities with regard to air traffic management , and if it is legitimate to unify the European air space , this must be achieved by rejecting any idea of privatisation , competition , or quest for profitability , and we will vote against this report . 
ENGLISH Mr President , I really must congratulate my colleague , Sir Robert Atkins of the British Conservative Party , on his most excellent report on the Single European Sky . 
ENGLISH This proves beyond doubt that the overarching ambition of the European Union is a single nation with its single national flag , its single national anthem , its single legal space , its single national borders and now the citizens of Europe will soon be able to breath single European air . 
ENGLISH However , after the failure of the single land policy , known as the CAP , the single sea policy , known as the CFP , we can now look forward to a similar failure of the single sky policy . 
ENGLISH Not least , given the number of strikes in air traffic control , I suppose we can now look forward to the single European strike . 
ENGLISH But you have struck a real blow for the Eurosceptic movement in the UK , Sir Robert , I congratulate you . 
ENGLISH Mr President , It is quite true to say that air traffic delays need to be urgently addressed . 
ENGLISH However , it is also worth noting that 33 % of ATM delays recorded between January and June 1999 were mostly due to temporary capacity reductions associated not least with the Kosovo crisis . 
ENGLISH The real problem lies in the sectors straddling areas north and south which include Switzerland , France , Italy , Spain , parts of Germany , Maastricht upper - air space and these are responsible for 44 % air traffic flow management delays and 30 bottlenecks . 
ENGLISH At one time , Greece was part of that problem . 
ENGLISH However , the impressive results by the Greeks goes to show that the improvements can be made if there is strong action and real cooperation by national governments . 
ENGLISH All too often Eurocontrol is used as the scapegoat and is blamed for the present situation , but the real blame must lie with the inaction of national governments in the areas that I have outlined . 
ENGLISH It is quite clear that the European Transport Council must take immediate action to ensure that the air traffic control decisions are applied by all Member States Europe - wide . 
ENGLISH It should be remembered that Eurocontrol is the only pan - European institution in the air traffic management domain and must be supported . 
ENGLISH Finally , one issue that was raised -- the critical shortage of manpower to the tune of 1,000 air traffic controllers throughout Europe -- needs to be urgently addressed by national governments . 
ENGLISH That in itself will go a long way to improving flow control . 
ENGLISH In addition , both airports and airlines need to look closely at their practices , as they too are responsible far too often for the high percentage of delays incurred . 
ENGLISH Mr President , allow me to begin by offering my thanks to the rapporteur , Mr Atkins , for a powerful presentation , to the Commission for making this issue one of its priorities and to the Commissioner responsible , Mrs De Palacio , for daring to translate words into action . 
ENGLISH This has meant that the question of a single air traffic control has , in a short time , come closer to a solution perhaps than ever before . 
ENGLISH Of course , there still remains much to be done . 
ENGLISH In particular , a number of reluctant Member States need to be convinced , but that is precisely why it is so incredibly important for the European Parliament to give the Commission its full support today for the continuation of the work . 
ENGLISH We are , of course , in the middle of yet another chaotic summer for flights . 
ENGLISH The development we are now seeing will result in a doubling of air traffic in the years following 2010 . 
ENGLISH This assumes that we have had the necessary political decisions . 
ENGLISH Otherwise we not only run the risk of congestion in the air leading in the future to 15, 30 or 60 minutes' - delay , which we can perhaps put up with , but are also in danger of no longer being certain of ensuring safety . 
ENGLISH This is something we must never put up with . 
ENGLISH The EU has spent a considerable amount of time and energy on tearing down borders and creating a single market . 
ENGLISH Everyone who travels a mile up in the air -- and we are there quite often -- can nevertheless see that there are borders everywhere . 
ENGLISH The report lays down an extremely tight timetable . 
ENGLISH I share this ambition . 
ENGLISH Let us together ensure that the summer of 2000 is the last summer with chaos in the skies over Europe . 
ENGLISH Mr President , Madam Vice - President of the Commission , ladies and gentlemen , there has hardly ever been such a topical report as this one . 
ENGLISH Just in time before the summer break , when everyone goes on holiday and more and more people also travel by plane , today Parliament is considering questions of air traffic . 
ENGLISH A tiresome subject , as we all know , and as every air traveller finds out . 
ENGLISH We all suffer from delays that often last hours . 
ENGLISH It has now become a daily scene at airports to see every passage - way overcrowded with bored , irritable or even aggressive passengers . 
ENGLISH It happens to us MEPs very frequently , as it does to much of the population during the holidays . 
ENGLISH Let me remind you of another aspect . 
ENGLISH When aircraft cannot land on time , that not only creates a great many personal difficulties for people on business trips who have to keep to their schedules but also produces extra costs and environmental pollution . 
ENGLISH So I welcome the fact that the Commission has submitted a report on these important subjects and that a High Level Group was set up to consider the problems of establishing a single European sky . 
ENGLISH I hope we will have the final results of its inquiries before us in good time in the autumn so that we can then really move on to taking concrete measures jointly with the Commission . 
ENGLISH Safety standards must on no account be endangered . 
ENGLISH That is why we need better airspace control and protection . 
ENGLISH Eurocontrol must satisfy all these safety requirements , but that means we also have to create the necessary framework conditions . 
ENGLISH Thank you very much , Commissioner . 
ENGLISH The debate is closed . 
ENGLISH The vote will take place today at 12 noon . 
ENGLISH Health and safety of pregnant workers 
ENGLISH Thousands of female workers in various countries in the Union have benefited from it , but it is now out of date . 
ENGLISH It is out of date because the 1952 ILO convention has just been revised and there is an expectation that most countries in the world will substantially improve their maternity protection . 
ENGLISH It was and still is , of course , hoped that the Union will continue to be in the vanguard in social terms , in this area as in others . 
ENGLISH But not everything is out of date , because in terms of organisation of work , there have been shortcomings in transposing the directive and even greater shortcomings in implementing it . 
ENGLISH In most countries , the three stages of job organisation are not being respected . These stages are : the employer should adjust the working conditions and / or hours of the worker to avoid exposure to risk ; if that fails , the worker should be moved to another job ; only if neither option is possible should the worker be granted leave , as this reduces the worker' - s income and also her career opportunities . 
ENGLISH By way of example , I must tell you that in some countries , not even a minimum period of recuperation is allowed for the mother , which the experts say should be around 45 days for a normal birth for a woman working in a normal job . 
ENGLISH We think that women must be guaranteed the option of enjoying an appropriate period of maternity leave , which they can share with the father , but that the leave should be assessed and guaranteed according to the risk to her own health . 
ENGLISH Furthermore , this directive does not provide for a link between its own risk assessment provisions and other directives , particularly the framework directive on risk assessment and information for workers . 
ENGLISH Since there is no such link , employment of women is subject to unfair criticism because the costs of maternity - related risks apply exclusively to young women of childbearing age . 
ENGLISH These risks are being underestimated and should not be a matter for the employer or constitute an obligation on the employer only when the woman' - s doctor informs the employer of her condition . 
ENGLISH Firstly , because this is too late : risks from radiation , chemically - charged atmospheres and poor working posture are well known now and all have harmful consequences for the health of the woman and her baby , particularly in the first few weeks . 
ENGLISH An example of this is the extreme temperatures that cause infertility in women and men . 
ENGLISH The Union , which is today in a position to do so , should draw up and implement legislation to this end. With regard to maternity leave , we are aware of the costs to economic activity of proposals to extend this leave . 
ENGLISH We also know that these costs are much higher when employing women , but health specialists recommend that a baby should remain at home for at least five months , protected from the outside world and , above all , growing up in a suitable psychological and emotional environment , which will provide it with the necessary balance for growing up with a sense of security , because it needs its parents . 
ENGLISH Parental leave should therefore be extended , and , if healthily divided between the parents , will benefit them both . 
ENGLISH The directive should also take the informal economy and atypical employment contracts into consideration . 
ENGLISH Finally , I hope that the Commission will tell us what it is intending to do in this area , now that it has an extended legal basis , which includes Article 13 and ex Article 118 . This means that it can certainly cover other aspects mentioned in the report . 
ENGLISH Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , Mrs Damião has drafted a very good report and taken good account in it of my opinion for the Committee on Women' - s Rights and Equal Opportunities . 
ENGLISH It is most important to everyone to improve the health and safety protection at the workplace for women who are pregnant , have recently given birth or are breastfeeding , both to protect the woman and to protect the unborn child . 
ENGLISH This is a general social issue and must be treated with the greatest care . 
ENGLISH The Commission' - s report on the 1992 directive is only concerned with the technical transposition of the directive and does not look at the situation at the workplace , which has to some extent changed , or at the changed role of women in society . 
ENGLISH The number of single parents has risen and women are more concerned with achieving economic independence . 
ENGLISH The Commission must submit a proposal for revision of the directive that takes account of all these changes , and it must do so as quickly as possible , this very year . 
ENGLISH There is a considerable need to improve the legislation . 
ENGLISH That applies to preventive health protection measures at the workplace for the mother and for the unborn child . 
ENGLISH Here we must avoid any risks . 
ENGLISH Any activity that puts their health at risk should without exception be prohibited . 
ENGLISH Periods allowed for breastfeeding should be regulated and there should be facilities for breastfeeding at the workplace . 
ENGLISH Maternity leave after the birth of the child should be at least eight weeks . 
ENGLISH There must be clear rules on financial support , both for the period of pregnancy leave and for maternity leave . 
ENGLISH None of these necessary provisions must lead to discrimination against women or to a reduction of their chances of access to the workplace . 
ENGLISH Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , today we are debating the implementation of Council Directive 92 / 85 / EEC of 19 October 1992, which is one of the most important directives in the field of the technical and health protection of workers . 
ENGLISH I well remember its genesis and the problems that were discussed at the time . 
ENGLISH A positive aspect is that at that time , irrespective of the dispute about the legal basis , its importance to women workers in the single market was recognised and a first step was taken towards establishing minimum standards for the protection of pregnant workers and new mothers . 
ENGLISH The Commission report before us continues to show up weaknesses in the implementation of the directive , which means we must increase our efforts to establish the protection of women during a special period of their life in law and in practice . 
ENGLISH Really it is very sad for a society to find we have to pay much greater attention to this area in particular . 
ENGLISH So I support the call to revise the directive as soon as possible . 
ENGLISH Some of the demands that will have to be incorporated in a proposal for a revision of the directive are set out in the draft amendments before us , and the PPE Group can therefore support at least some of them . 
ENGLISH First and foremost , they include the call for a strict prohibition on dismissal during pregnancy and maternity leave , safeguards to ensure that on expiry of their leave the women will be reinstated in their job or given a comparable one and effective penalties for those who infringe that prohibition . 
ENGLISH For women who want to or have to reconcile working life and motherhood , anything else would mean penalising or unjustifiably discriminating against them in their occupational and private life . 
ENGLISH Seen in these terms , the effective protection of pregnant workers and new mothers is one of the most important contributions to an active family policy . 
ENGLISH With a view to eastward enlargement and protection in those countries , let me also point out that the single market must not lead to discrimination against pregnant women and new mothers . 
ENGLISH Madam President , Commissioner , I would like to start by thanking the rapporteur for her thorough , responsible and unreserved report . 
ENGLISH This is an extremely sensitive issue which is closely related to other matters which are regularly referred to such as the ageing population , the demographic trend , the low birth rate , the right to health , the right to work , the right to motherhood and the social value of motherhood . This matter cannot be viewed as affecting women alone : they must be protected and supported by society . 
ENGLISH The 1992 directive , whose implementation in the Member States we are assessing today , is intended precisely to introduce minimum measures to encourage the improvement of the health and safety of pregnant women and women who have recently given birth and are breastfeeding . 
ENGLISH The Commission 's evaluation report shows that the directive has proved its utility in that it has been of some benefit in a number of Member States in certain areas of the issue , such as leave on grounds of health and safety , etc. However , apart from these points , which are of a general nature , we share the rapporteur 's criticism of the Commission 's report . 
ENGLISH This report was overdue and limited almost exclusively to dealing with legal and technical transposition . 
ENGLISH There is a lack of concrete statistics and data on vital aspects of the directive , such as the monitoring of workplace risk assessment for pregnant workers and the frequency of work - related accidents and illnesses , and satisfactory information is not provided on the coordination of legislative adaptation of specialist inspection , penalties or scientific research for the detection , prevention , elimination and recuperation of professional hazards relating to pregnancy . 
ENGLISH We feel that there has been a lack of serious monitoring on the part of the Commission . There has been a lack of coordination between the health and safety directorate and the equal opportunities unit , and the ambiguity of the directive itself in this area has become apparent . 
ENGLISH In addition to taking all the necessary compatibilities into consideration , when they revise the directive , the Commission and the Member States should be motivated by the principle of non - discrimination and the recognition of motherhood and fatherhood as fundamental rights which are essential for a balanced society . 
ENGLISH Mr President , it is important that women have good and secure conditions during pregnancy and childbirth so that mother and child have a good start , and it is important that pregnancy and childbirth do not reduce women' - s opportunities in the labour market . 
ENGLISH We have a directive from 1992 which establishes minimum rights for maternity leave and women' - s entitlements to financial compensation when they are absent from the labour market due to childbirth . 
ENGLISH The Commission has now investigated the Member States' - implementation of this directive and , in her report , Mrs Damião quite correctly points out that the Commission' - s report contains only a technical and factual assessment of the directive' - s implementation and does not provide an evaluation of whether the directive in practice provides pregnant women or women who have just given birth with better conditions . 
ENGLISH I do not think we should demand a new draft directive which contains the right to a longer period of leave , together with demands for longer enforced leave , and which lays down more detailed requirements for financial compensation in a way that does not take the necessary account of the differences between the Member States' - social systems . 
ENGLISH The existing rules make for great flexibility , and most countries guarantee women better conditions than the common regulations require . 
ENGLISH In any case , maternity leave and financial aid ought to be given priority in the individual countries . 
ENGLISH However , I think it would be a good idea to obtain a better overview of what the circumstances are in the different countries so that governments can learn from each other' - s good and bad experiences and inspire each other . 
ENGLISH Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , the European Commission is required to submit a directive proposal on measures for workers during pregnancy , birth and breastfeeding by the end of 2000 . 
ENGLISH The assessment of the existing measures , which was intended to lead to change , is four years behind schedule and fails to meet the requirements which the European Parliament prescribed at the time . 
ENGLISH The Group of the Greens / European Free Alliance calls for an increase in the level of protection . 
ENGLISH In our opinion , this report should also embrace the right to return back to work to the same or an equivalent job after maternity leave . 
ENGLISH We are asking for the rights of pregnant and breastfeeding women to be extended . 
ENGLISH In practice , women are often discriminated against during this period , despite rights on paper . 
ENGLISH This is why we call for a reversal of the burden of proof . 
ENGLISH Employers will need to demonstrate that any dismissal or change of job is not linked to pregnancy . 
ENGLISH Finally , we would like the Commission to explain why at the recent ILO conference , the Member States failed to adopt the common positions . 
ENGLISH How is it possible that the United Kingdom abstained from the final vote , which , in view of the procedure , is tantamount to voting against ? 
ENGLISH We would like to close by thanking Mrs Damião for the work she has carried out . 
ENGLISH Mr President , at a time when Europe , with the Beijing + 5 Conference in New York , is emphasising its pioneering role in the implementation of the principle of equality between men and women , it seems equally important to guarantee their freedom . 
ENGLISH This freedom is achieved through a right to specific protection for women , a right that is always related to their bodies , in particular to maternity and , more specifically , pregnancy . 
ENGLISH We are therefore pleased with Mrs Damião' - s excellent report , which highlights the urgent need to revise the 1992 directive . 
ENGLISH Her request for a formal ban on dismissal during pregnancy is essential , and I will dwell only on this point . 
ENGLISH It seems to me to be dangerous to allow employers any leeway in this field , as they will always use it to their advantage . 
ENGLISH Today , with the revision of Convention 103, the ILO is levelling down the protection of pregnant women , by accepting certain dismissals that are said to be unrelated to pregnancy . 
ENGLISH Europe , with Mrs Damião' - s report and the revision of the directive , has a duty to be a political reference for women' - s rights world - wide . 
ENGLISH Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , I should like to start by congratulating Mrs Damião on the magnificent job she has done on this report . We were happy to contribute to this in committee , not only by giving the report our total support , but also by adding some amendments that were accepted in the final version . 
ENGLISH We consider the approval of this report to be a significant event as we approach the summer recess , for four fundamental reasons . 
ENGLISH Firstly , we think it is unacceptable that women should suffer social prejudice or discrimination because of pregnancy or maternity issues ; 
ENGLISH Secondly , because we must more vigorously tackle risks to the health of mother and child associated with working conditions ; 
ENGLISH Thirdly , the idea of reconciling personal and professional lives , the family and work , in modern society is becoming increasingly important to those of us concerned about people' - s day - to - day lives . 
ENGLISH This is precisely one of those key areas in which a responsible approach to reconciling these interests is called for ; 
ENGLISH Fourthly , because maternity policies must be consistent with family and childbirth policies generally , particularly at a time when the crisis resulting from Europe' - s ageing population is increasingly drawing Member States' - attention to this issue . 
ENGLISH Nevertheless , we will not support all of the amendments , because we feel that this balance is actually preferable to some of the steps suggested in the amendments . 
ENGLISH We shall support the amendments suggested by our British Conservative colleagues , such as Mr Bushill - Matthews , who drew our attention to the issue of small - and medium - sized enterprises , which we feel must be taken into account when legislation is adopted , whether at Community or national level . 
ENGLISH On the other hand , however , we hope that the British Conservatives will back the report , because although it is true that some of the Portuguese Presidency' - s conclusions highlight this issue , I must emphasise that paragraph 36 of the final Feira Summit text stresses the importance of companies' - sense of social responsibility . 
ENGLISH For us Portuguese Christian - Democrats and Conservatives , this is a very important idea . We believe that companies also have a certain social responsibility , which they should build upon . 
ENGLISH I would just like to add that we wish certain votes to be held separately , as a means of improving the report , some points in which strike us as rather obscure . 
ENGLISH We do not view pregnancy as a social resource and there is one other point on which we would like to see a separate vote in order to improve the report . 
ENGLISH Lastly , I would urge all Christian - Democrat Members to endorse this report by my Socialist colleague . 
ENGLISH Mr President , I wish at this point to express my disappointment at the Commission' - s failure to adopt any position on the revision , assessment and notification of Directive 92 / 85 on maternity protection as yet . 
ENGLISH Nevertheless , although I wish to highlight the considerable harm that this omission has caused to mothers , every cloud has a silver lining , and this report , which has been brilliantly drafted by Mrs Damião , is proof of that such silver linings exist . This report will enable the European Parliament to move ahead now . 
ENGLISH It specifically notes the rights of women working independently or as teleworkers , and highlights the growing concern about single parents , who are becoming increasingly common in Europe . 
ENGLISH The aim of extending maternity leave to twenty weeks is an ambitious one , which is recommended from a technical point of view , and must gradually be implemented . We must therefore prepare ourselves for this in economic terms , by sharing out responsibilities through cooperation between states and employers' - and workers' - organisations . 
ENGLISH In order to achieve the aims that are being proposed , it is also crucial for us to encourage greater dialogue , collaboration and coordination between specialists in health , hygiene and safety at work , so that a more suitable working environment can be provided for pregnant women . 
ENGLISH The European Community must strive to gain the support of applicant countries to ensure that awareness is raised as rapidly as possible , so that the measures recommended in this report can be adopted , since there may be greater resistance in those countries , which could be difficult to overcome . 
ENGLISH Lastly , I wish to sound a warning about point 9 of this report , because measures for protecting new mothers , such as very long maternity leave , may have unwanted effects , as it may become disadvantageous for employers to employ women , and they may consequently prefer to take on men . 
ENGLISH The Commission must therefore create a system for detecting fraud and for applying harsh penalties to companies practising this kind of discrimination . 
ENGLISH Mr President , adopting a directive does not necessarily mean that reality is as we would wish it . 
ENGLISH We have a good example of this here . 
ENGLISH According to the Commission' - s assessment , the situation regarding the health and safety of pregnant women looks fine , but that is certainly only on paper , for is that also the way it looks in reality ? 
ENGLISH I am not so sure . 
ENGLISH The pace in the labour market is more hectic than ever . Great efficiency is demanded , and women are supposed to work as if they were not pregnant , even if they are . 
ENGLISH It is stressful , and it is unhealthy both for the pregnant woman and the foetus . 
ENGLISH We know this , because investigations have proven this to be the case . 
ENGLISH The European Parliament and ourselves as representatives of the people are entitled to know whether the legislation we adopt also actually works in practice . 
ENGLISH The message from Parliament to the Commission should therefore be that the work which has been done is not good enough . 
ENGLISH It needs to be re - done . 
ENGLISH We must know whether the legislation is working . 
ENGLISH I think there is a greater need to discover what suitable protection consists in , and there should be stricter rules governing dismissal during pregnancy . 
ENGLISH The Commission must go back to the drawing board , set to work again and table the necessary proposals . 
ENGLISH The European social model is characterised by the fact that we have a high level of protection . 
ENGLISH This should be an area -- and this remark is aimed at the Liberal Group which has adopted a very different view -- in which the EU should have a big influence . 
ENGLISH It should not be left to the individual Member States . 
ENGLISH Women' - s participation in the labour market is a prerequisite of our achieving the ambitious goals we have set ourselves regarding employment and the modernisation of the European social model . 
ENGLISH They cannot be left to the Member States . Europe as a whole needs to attend to these issues . 
ENGLISH Mr President , many women are discriminated against today in their workplaces . 
ENGLISH We know that many lose their jobs when they become pregnant . 
ENGLISH This is completely unacceptable ! 
ENGLISH The Damião report contains many good proposals , but we in the Swedish Liberal Party still have fundamental objections to the report . 
ENGLISH I would like to say to my predecessor , who spoke just a moment ago , that , in this Parliament , we ought more often to ask ourselves the question : What should the European Parliament actually be doing ? 
ENGLISH How much detail should we go into ? 
ENGLISH We believe in the subsidiarity principle , i.e. that decisions should be taken as close as possible to the people they affect . 
ENGLISH Social policy is an area where the EU ought to have limited jurisdiction , except when it is a question of free movement for citizens within the Union . 
ENGLISH Every Member State should have full responsibility and the right to make its own decisions regarding its social security systems . 
ENGLISH Maternity / paternity leave and maternity / paternity benefit are examples of issues that are not directly transnational . 
ENGLISH We do not believe in detailed common European social legislation . 
ENGLISH This does not , however , prevent Member States from cooperating and sharing ideas concerning social issues . 
ENGLISH The Damião report contains an amalgam of legitimate demands for proper security for women workers throughout Europe , demands for greater freedom of movement and a better functioning single market and demands for the national right of decision on the details of the socio - political system . 
ENGLISH In this connection , the report contains an imbalance . 
ENGLISH My final question is : Why should the European Parliament decide that every woman in the whole of Europe must have eight weeks off work when she has had a child ? 
ENGLISH Mr President , Mrs - Damião , the author of this report , is justified in her criticisms of the Commission as regards the delay in revising the current directive . 
ENGLISH The report quite rightly laments the Commission' - s failure to comply with the timetable set by the directive and the fact that there has been no assessment of how effectively the directive has been implemented . The report stresses the need for a proposal for an urgent revision of the directive , and suggests inclusion of various measures , which we essentially support and agree with . 
ENGLISH As a matter of fact , in the discussions held in the Parliamentary committees , we tabled various amendments designed to guarantee the statutory right to take breaks from work for breastfeeding , to ensure non - discrimination in the workplace against pregnant women and women who have just given birth or who are breastfeeding , particularly in terms of salary , and to guarantee career progression and employment , with particular emphasis on the situation of working women who have temporary or atypical contracts . 
ENGLISH In general , the amendments were accepted , with the exception of the amendment on the payment of allowances during time off work and maternity leave , which must be equivalent to 100 % of the previous salary and be taken into account for the purposes of calculating pension entitlements . 
ENGLISH I hope that Parliament will adopt this amendment . 
ENGLISH Mr President , if the Commission 's intention was to improve the effective health and safety of pregnant workers and workers who have recently given birth , it may be said that it has not achieved its goal . 
ENGLISH The report has two clear shortcomings : firstly , the fact that it is overdue and secondly , its limitations . 
ENGLISH It could have been finished as far back as 1997, but even though it is late , it could at least have clarified the wording of certain articles of the directive and defined the many undefined concepts which have given rise to numerous interpretations . 
ENGLISH Among the various missing data which would have been useful , it could also have provided the results of the questionnaires sent to the Member States and the results of the coordination of relevant laws and activities by the European Standardisation Centre . 
ENGLISH The European Parliament recognised the need to revise the directive as early as 1992, with the result that now , given the need for a social market economy , it agrees with the objectives of Mrs Damião 's report : to link maternity policies to family policy and to remove ambiguity by practically and quantifiably enhancing the rights of pregnant workers and workers who have recently given birth . 
ENGLISH Mr President , Madam Vice - President of the Commission , the incorporation of women into the labour market means that at some time their working life will coincide with a pregnancy , which sometimes means that they are obliged to take additional leave so as not to endanger their own health or the health of the unborn child . 
ENGLISH Society must care for working women in particular by ensuring that they remain in their jobs . 
ENGLISH The incorporation of women into the workplace is a reality which cannot be reversed and women cannot be put in a situation of having to chose between having children and keeping their job because of the complications which a pregnancy may entail . 
ENGLISH The ageing of the population , together with the low birth - rate in the European Union , means that this is an issue of enormous importance for all social operators . 
ENGLISH As important as the protection of pregnant women is provision for breast - feeding , which is beneficial to the health of both mother and child . 
ENGLISH The protection of maternity and breast - feeding cannot be considered as a form of unequal treatment between men and women , since maternity is exclusive to women and it is women who must be protected , independently of the fact that some parental leave can be granted to men . 
ENGLISH The directive must include a minimum leave of 20 weeks , with an obligatory period of at least eight weeks after giving birth . 
ENGLISH A minimum salary of 80 % must be guaranteed , with no loss of pension rights . 
ENGLISH The ban on dismissal during pregnancy must be strictly complied with . 
ENGLISH In no circumstances must pregnancy be a cause for discrimination against women . 
ENGLISH The Committee on Women' - s Rights and Equal Opportunities unanimously condemns the delay on the part of the Commission , which is even more serious given that it extends from 1992 to 2000, which is the period in which there have been the most changes in terms of women' - s access to work . 
ENGLISH Furthermore , we believe that this deficiency in the legislation may be exacerbating a very serious phenomenon , that is , the rejection by young people of motherhood . 
ENGLISH We ask the Commission , before the end of 2000, to present an amendment of Directive 92 / 85 / EEC and that that directive be applicable to all pregnant workers , in all areas and occupations , with no exceptions or conditions . 
ENGLISH The new legislation must be clear and progressive . 
ENGLISH It must provide for new working situations and also the new family situation of single parent families . 
ENGLISH The pregnant worker must be provided with adequate protection , which is designed for their specific circumstances , but this should not mean discrimination or a reduction in their work opportunities , but quite the opposite . 
ENGLISH We must be able to provide the means for breast - feeding to be compatible with work . 
ENGLISH Mr President , the Commission report , which I have read in great detail , says : " In general terms Directive 92 / 85 / EEC has been well implemented by the Member States and this is reflected in the low level of complaints about the rights of pregnant workers received by the Commission " . 
ENGLISH I like some of the suggestions in her report . 
ENGLISH But in general it is not a health and safety agenda . 
ENGLISH It is very much a traditional socialist agenda . 
ENGLISH Firstly , her report aims to harmonise social policy across the EU rather than leave the detail to Member States -- a point made with great force by Mr Olle Schmidt earlier in this debate . 
ENGLISH Secondly , it wants to improve the terms and conditions of employment for pregnant workers and new mothers by way of extra maternity leave and specified minimum pay levels . 
ENGLISH Neither of these are really health and safety issues . 
ENGLISH She is proposing solutions for which there is no health and safety problem . 
ENGLISH As British Conservatives we confirm our concern about health and safety for all workers , especially vulnerable groups . 
ENGLISH We confirm our commitment to subsidiarity regarding terms and conditions of employment . 
ENGLISH But we also confirm our concern to help more women into jobs rather than putting up further barriers to female employment . 
ENGLISH Hence we urge the House to reject the report . 
ENGLISH It seems to me that , in this proposal for a revision of the directive that we are asking the Commission to present quickly , it is essential to preserve the reality of three fundamental principles for women and their well - being : the prohibition of dismissal for pregnant women or women on maternity leave , the right to a mandatory minimum leave and allowance during this leave to be taken into account for the purposes of acquiring pension entitlements . 
ENGLISH With regard to high - risk pregnancies and the birth of disabled children , it is obvious that provision must be made for specially adapted proposals offering an extension of the length of maternity leave , taking account of the specifics of the case . 
ENGLISH As far as definition of the allowance is concerned , it seems that the figure to be considered must be at least 80 % of the previous salary , and that includes for purposes of acquiring pension entitlements . 
ENGLISH Finally , it is recommended that this text should correlate and reinforce the formal prohibition of dismissal during pregnancy and maternity leave . 
ENGLISH Mr President , my compliments to the rapporteur for her work on protecting women during pregnancy and maternity , a particularly difficult time . 
ENGLISH This report certainly represents progress , not just for women in general but also in that it safeguards family rights and upholds fundamental values . 
ENGLISH The European People 's Party has always upheld the concept of the family , the basic unit of society , as the basis for European construction and the Christian values from which it stems require that it be respected . 
ENGLISH At a time when Europe has demographic problems , the institutions need to issue a firm signal to reassure working women , who have to have sufficient peace of mind and the necessary guarantees to be able to opt for motherhood . 
ENGLISH This is why it is necessary to have a sufficiently long period of rest from work before giving birth and even longer afterwards , when there is a child to breastfeed , look after and bring up . 
ENGLISH Therefore , benefits should not be cut considerably during this period and pension funds should not be affected either . 
ENGLISH Finally , I would like to express my support for maintaining the prohibition on dismissal of women during this period , and also for the fact that the cost of benefits for workers on maternity leave are not borne directly by the company where the woman works but entirely by the State , in order to avoid discrimination and penalising women in the labour market . 
ENGLISH Mr President , I would firstly like to thank Mrs Damião for her magnificent report , despite the fact that it contains a series of criticisms of the Commission' - s actions . 
ENGLISH I must accept these criticisms since they are true and are based on real facts . 
ENGLISH However , I must offer a justification and an explanation . 
ENGLISH In order to produce this text , the Commission has had to rely on documentation provided by the different Member States and , unfortunately , that documentation has not been provided with all the speed and efficiency which the Commission would have liked . 
ENGLISH That is the reason for the delay in presentation . 
ENGLISH The Commission obviously fully shares the Parliament' - s interest in improving the protection of pregnant workers and those who have recently given birth . 
ENGLISH The Community legislation and the jurisprudence of the European Court of Justice still do not offer a sufficient framework although they are undoubtedly key elements to making further progress in this aspect which is essential to safeguarding the rights of pregnant workers . 
ENGLISH Directive 92 / 85 was adopted before the Treaty of Amsterdam . 
ENGLISH We believe that it is now , after the Treaty , that we will be able to go further and take some steps forward . 
ENGLISH That is what we propose and to this end we are going to prepare a supplementary report on the implementation of this directive , which we will present in 2002 . 
ENGLISH As the honourable Members know well , the Commission last week approved its new social agenda for 2000 - 2005 and it is within this framework that we hope to offer an adequate solution , not only to this specific problem , but also to a whole series of other issues . 
ENGLISH Mr President , this is the last time this week that the House will be meeting in such great numbers . 
ENGLISH This Parliament' - s reputation with the press is excellent , because for the past twenty years , Parliament has managed to issue press releases for the written press twice a day . 
ENGLISH This previous system has now been changed . 
ENGLISH I had a brief look to see how the system worked this week . 
ENGLISH The press release to commemorate former President Pflimlin did not appear until 11.22 p.m. on Monday evening . 
ENGLISH The report on the Feira Summit was issued on Tuesday morning , the report on Tuesday morning' - s discharge sitting was issued at 9.12 p.m. The report on Zimbabwe , Tuesday afternoon , was issued at 10.55 p.m. The report on the European Central Bank on Wednesday morning was issued at 8.00 p.m. the same day . 
ENGLISH This kind of reporting is not really of much use at all to the written press . 
ENGLISH At that time of the day , editorial staff have gone home and we are , in a way , generating old news . 
ENGLISH I would ask you , Mr President , to revert back to the old system and to ensure that the press releases , the daily press releases , not only appear on time , but also afford a general overview -- in a decentralised manner -- for each language . 
ENGLISH I would ask you to request the Bureau to think about this very carefully and reconsider their decision . 
ENGLISH Mr President , on a point of order , I am sorry to delay the House when I know there is a large amount of voting to go on . 
ENGLISH I have just discovered from my agenda that the vote on my own report is to be taken last . 
ENGLISH I have not been consulted about this . 
ENGLISH Indeed I indicated earlier that this needed to be taken as early as possible in the voting because -- and as one of those involved in aviation , I know this better than most -- I have only got one flight to get me home . 
ENGLISH And so I am stuck ! 
ENGLISH I have taken note of your request . 
ENGLISH That would be something else ! 
ENGLISH We shall now proceed to the vote . 
ENGLISH Vote 
ENGLISH Mr President , as you have said , we will be voting on the compromise motions agreed in an informal conciliation procedure with the Commission . 
ENGLISH By adopting this procedure vis - à - vis the Commission , Parliament has once again expressed our resolve also to achieve full codecision in the Committee on Agriculture and in relation to agriculture . 
ENGLISH We have achieved it by adopting this procedure for the case in point . 
ENGLISH I want to thank the Commission for its cooperation in this regard and I hope the compromises we have reached will also gain the kind of support from the Council and the Commission that means they can only be rejected unanimously . 
ENGLISH So the Commission and Parliament have jointly managed to establish a very strong position and I hope that will also serve as an example to the Intergovernmental Conference in Nice . 
ENGLISH Mr President , Commissioners , ladies and gentlemen , I really want to give warm thanks , not just to the Commission but also to all those involved , to all my colleagues on the Committee on Agriculture , for enabling us jointly to achieve this compromise ! 
ENGLISH I would ask you to adopt this document today , because otherwise the Council would be able to take a decision on 16 and 17 July without having Parliament' - s opinion , since we would not be cooperating as faithfully as we should according to a European Court of Justice ruling . 
ENGLISH So I would ask that we adopt this document today . 
ENGLISH Once again , many thanks for your cooperation ! 
ENGLISH Commissioner , would you like to respond to the question ? 
ENGLISH Commission. -- ( DE ) Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , just a few brief comments . 
ENGLISH I confirm that the Commission accepts 12 of the 13 compromise amendments . 
ENGLISH But in terms of substance , the Commission will support them during the discussion with the Council . 
ENGLISH Regarding Amendment No 51, the Commission takes note of the committee' - s concern about the level of support for long fibres but must just point out again that obviously it will be impossible to evaluate the situation in full if a report has to be drawn up on it only a year after the reform . 
ENGLISH On behalf of my colleague Mr Fischler and the Commission , let me thank you for your cooperation . I believe that the compromise proposals that have been achieved have helped improve the text and above all , of course , have helped take the situation forwards . 
ENGLISH ( Parliament adopted the legislative resolution ) 
ENGLISH eport without debate ( A5 - 0182 / 2000 ) by Mrs Stauner , on behalf of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs , on the draft Guidelines for the various types of innovative measures in the context of Article 22 of General Regulation ( EC ) No 1260 / 1999 of 21 June 1999 -- Innovative Measures under Article 6 of the ESF Regulation [ C5 - 235 / 2000 -- 2000 / 2127 ( COS ) ] 
ENGLISH ( Parliament adopted the draft resolution ) 
ENGLISH < / P > eport ( A5 - 0183 / 2000 ) by Mr Bourlanges , on behalf of the Committee on Budgets , on draft supplementary and amending budget No 1 to the budget of the European Communities for the 2000 financial year [ C5 - 0314 / 2000 ] 
ENGLISH ( Parliament adopted the resolution ) 
ENGLISH * * * < / P > eport ( A5 - 0192 / 2000 ) by Mr Virrankoski , on behalf of the Committee on budgets , on draft supplementary and amending budget No 2 to the budget of the European Communities for the 2000 financial year [ C5 - 0342 / 2000 ] 
ENGLISH ( Parliament adopted the resolution ) 
ENGLISH * * * < / P > eport ( A5 - 0190 / 2000 ) by Mrs Stauner , on behalf of the Committee on Budgetary Control , on giving discharge to the Commission in respect of implementation of the general budget of the European Union for the 1998 financial year [ SEC ( 1999 ) 412 -- C5 - 0006 / 1999 -- 1999 / 2050 ( DEC ) ] 
ENGLISH ( Parliament adopted the resolution ) 
ENGLISH ( Parliament adopted the resolution ) 
ENGLISH Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , I regret having to take the floor in regard to Mr Kuhne' - s report , but this concerns a very serious course of events . 
ENGLISH This report , which is about the discharge of Parliament' - s 1998 budget , as you all know , contains a paragraph 18 and a sixth indent . 
ENGLISH This sixth indent concerns our group . 
ENGLISH There was an agreement -- and all the group chairmen will confirm this -- between the group chairmen that we would not address concrete cases relating to individual groups in the report , but that in future we will jointly endeavour to tackle any problems that may arise . 
ENGLISH So in view of the wording in the report , I tabled a compromise amendment on behalf of my group , and it was indicated to me a few days ago that the rapporteur would approve that compromise . 
ENGLISH We thereupon refrained from tabling an amendment that also refers to problems in regard to the Socialist Group . 
ENGLISH I now hear that the Socialist Group evidently will not endorse our Amendment No 10, tabled in my name . 
ENGLISH Let me state quite plainly , in all seriousness and with great regret , that this means the agreement between group chairmen was given up . 
ENGLISH Fair play was given up ! Let me also say that our group is disappointed , not just I personally but the entire group . 
ENGLISH ( Applause from the PPE - DE Group ) 
ENGLISH Mr Poettering , as you are aware , explanations of vote are made after the vote . 
ENGLISH We cannot start a debate now , even if the matter is an extremely sensitive issue . 
ENGLISH Yes , Mr President , I note that the law is not equal for all , because I wanted to speak along the same lines , in the previous sitting , on the resolution on Feira , and I was not given the authorisation to do so , and I did it at the right time in the end. I remember that there was a general row , in those benches , calling for the Rules of Procedure to be respected . 
ENGLISH This has not been the case today . 
ENGLISH On behalf of my group , I would like to point out that it is absolutely unacceptable , firstly , that a non - existent agreement be cited , and secondly that my group be threatened . 
ENGLISH It makes no sense to put conditions on other people' - s votes . 
ENGLISH I accept that one can defend one' - s positions , but what is not acceptable is that , in this action , before the vote , my group should be threatened in relation to an issue which has been voted on by the Committee on Budgetary Control , with the votes , also , of the Members on those benches . 
ENGLISH Furthermore , and I will end , Mr President , by saying that there is no mention by name of any group in the Kuhne report . 
ENGLISH I recommend to Mr Poettering that he reads the report carefully . 
ENGLISH ( Applause from the PSE Group ) 
ENGLISH Amendments Nos 1, 2, 3 and 5 propose deleting the obligation to indicate the category of animal on the labelling . 
ENGLISH There have already been discussions about the definition of the category in the Management Committee and the Commission is confident that solutions will be found that satisfy the majority , if not indeed all of the Member States . 
ENGLISH The Commission therefore believes it is crucial to introduce the provisions on labelling on 1 September . 
ENGLISH To open up the whole debate again would delay their entry into force . 
ENGLISH Then the amendments could not be adopted . 
ENGLISH So the Commission sees no reason to adopt that amendment and it is also against adopting Amendment No 6 . 
ENGLISH Yet I would point out , on behalf of the Commission , that it is possible even now to indicate the date of the minced meat production under the simplified , voluntary procedure . 
ENGLISH Let me also point out again that Mr Fischler stated yesterday that after the discussions in Parliament at first reading , a large majority of amendments were adopted and have now been incorporated in the text . 
ENGLISH ( The President declared the common position approved as amended ) 
ENGLISH ecommendation for second reading ( A5 - 0165 / 2000 ) , on behalf of the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer policy , on the common position adopted by the Council with a view to the adoption of a European Parliament and Council regulation allowing voluntary participation by organisations in a Community Eco - Management and Audit Scheme ( EMAS ) [ 10677 / 2 / 1999 -- C5 - 0098 / 2000 -- 1998 / 0303 ( COD ) ] ( Rapporteur : Mrs García - Orcoyen Tormo ) 
ENGLISH Commission. -- ( DE ) The Commission can accept Amendments Nos 1, 2 and 19 ( third part ) . 
ENGLISH Amendments Nos 3, 4, 16, 19 ( fourth part ) , 22, 25, 30 ( of which the first and third part ) . 
ENGLISH It accepts Amendments Nos 32 and 33 ( second part ) in principle . 
ENGLISH The Commission cannot accept the other amendments . 
ENGLISH Following Amendment No 49 
ENGLISH Mr President , in order to make this Amendment No 41 acceptable to the PPE Group and the Liberals , I suggest the following oral amendment : replace - & # x2018 ; the active involvement of the workers and their representatives & # x2019 ; - with - & # x2018 ; the involvement of the workers and their representatives in the organisation & # x2019 ; - . 
ENGLISH ( The President declared the common position approved as amended ) 
ENGLISH ecommendation for second reading ( A5 - 0166 / 2000 ) , on behalf of the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Policy on the common position established by the Council with a view to the adoption of a European Parliament and Council directive relating to limit values for benzene and carbon monoxide in ambient air [ 5860 / 1 / 2000 -- C5 - 0182 / 2000 -- 1998 / 0333 ( COD ) ] ( Rapporteur : Mrs Breyer ) 
ENGLISH Commission. -- ( DE ) The Commission cannot accept Amendment 4 . 
ENGLISH It accepts Amendments 5 and 6 in principle and Amendments 2 and 3 in full . 
ENGLISH Amendments Nos 5 and 6 are not here . 
ENGLISH . -- ( DE ) Mr President , I apologise again for my mistake a moment ago ! 
ENGLISH Secondly , if the proposal is worded as a recommendation , the Commission could also accept Amendments Nos 2, 10 ( of which the second part ) and 15 ( second part ) in relation to paragraph 9 . 
ENGLISH ( The President declared the common position approved as amended ) 
ENGLISH uropean Council of 19 / 20 June 2000 at Santa Maria da Feira 
ENGLISH Motion for a resolution ( B5 - 0583 / 2000 ) 
ENGLISH ( Parliament rejected the motion for a resolution ) 
ENGLISH Motion for a resolution ( B5 - 0585 / 2000 ) 
ENGLISH ( Parliament adopted the resolution ) < / P > oint motion for a resolution on the European Union observer delegation monitoring the elections in Zimbabwe 
ENGLISH ( Parliament adopted the resolution ) 
ENGLISH < / P > rafficking in human beings 
ENGLISH Motion for a resolution B5 - 0595 / 2000 on illegal immigration and the discovery of the bodies of 58 illegal immigrants in Dover 
ENGLISH ( Parliament rejected the motion for a resolution ) < / P > - oint motion for a resolution 
ENGLISH Mr President , as a people' - s representative I believe it is important for us to stand by what we have signed . 
ENGLISH Of course it is not particularly pleasant in terms of our parliamentary activities to have to withdraw something suddenly . 
ENGLISH That is why we have withdrawn our signature . 
ENGLISH I ask you to take note of that . 
ENGLISH resident. -- In view of the time , voting time will be suspended now and resumed at 5.30 p.m . 
ENGLISH Mr President , I respect your decision . 
ENGLISH But may I point out that it is extremely thoughtless to vote on legislation -- and the next report is a legislative report -- on a Thursday afternoon in July ! 
ENGLISH Consequently , if we wanted to deal with them all in the same way we would have had to have extended voting time well beyond 2 p.m. , and we cannot do that . 
ENGLISH In any case , we usually vote when there is a room available and not when there is not . 
ENGLISH Voting time is suspended . 
ENGLISH EXPLANATIONS OF VOTE * * * 
ENGLISH Please convey that to the Commissioner please , as she is not listening at the moment . 
ENGLISH Schierhuber report ( A5 - 0124 / 2000 ) 
ENGLISH . -- ( EL ) There are serious reservations regarding the proposal to amend Regulation EC No 1251 / 1999 on flax and hemp grown for fibre because of the unfair allocation of quotas between the Member States . 
ENGLISH Countries with an important agricultural sector and a high rate of employment in agriculture , such as Greece , have been given the lowest quota limit , for both flax and hemp . 
ENGLISH We should like to take this opportunity to stress the need for an awareness campaign in the Member States in order to overcome ignorance and educate the public about hemp grown for fibre ; in Greece , for example , shops selling hemp fibre have been shut down by the police and small undertakings have gone out of business . 
ENGLISH Stauner report ( A5 - 0182 / 2000 ) 
ENGLISH Mr President , pensioners and elderly people are in favour of innovation , even though it may appear otherwise , and so , as representative of the Pensioners' Party , I cannot help but support the inclusion of any rules leading to innovative measures when decisions are taken on the Structural Funds . 
ENGLISH On this occasion , after stating that I voted for the motion , of course , I would call -- and I do so willingly -- for , in future , the projects to be financed as innovative actions to include projects which are concerned not only with improving working conditions in the strict sense but also with everything which affects pensioners , who , during the period in which they are not working , use the contributions they paid in when they were working , and so this period is , indirectly , a continuation of their working activity . 
ENGLISH Mr President , I would just like to say that the Radical Members abstained from the vote on the Virrankoski report because the Council was trying to secure for its own budget the costs arising from missions conducted by military advisers or others within the framework of the CFSP . 
ENGLISH Since Parliament has always taken great care to ensure that that CFSP expenditure is an integral part of the Union budget , with the result that it falls within the scope of the Commission budget , we are concerned at the way the Virrankoski report departs from this practice and at the tendency to include CFSP running and operational expenditure in the Council 's budget . 
ENGLISH This is why we abstained from the Virrankoski report . 
ENGLISH We voted against extra money for military advisers because we believe a peace policy needs peace experts and non - violent conflict resolution . 
ENGLISH Stauner Report ( A5 - 0190 / 2000 ) 
ENGLISH Mr President , I do not believe Parliament should feel satisfied with what has been achieved so far . 
ENGLISH In discharging the Commission , it runs the risk of losing credibility in the field of budgetary control and combating fraud . 
ENGLISH Nor am I sure whether people in this House actually realise that giving a discharge means accepting liability for damages . 
ENGLISH It will be hard to explain to the citizens of Europe why EUR 14 million of taxes were squandered on the Fléchard case and why Parliament is letting itself be fobbed off with empty promises . 
ENGLISH So everyone in this House who voted for the discharge to the Commission is assuming quite personal responsibility for it . 
ENGLISH We need hardly wonder why the citizens are increasingly losing faith in Europe . 
ENGLISH On behalf of my group , I therefore want to state that we voted against the discharge to the Commission for that reason . 
ENGLISH -- ( DA ) On 6 July 2000, members of the Union for a Europe of Nations Group voted against giving discharge to the Commission in respect of implementation of the general budget of the European Union for 1998 . 
ENGLISH The reason for this is that the present Commission , which has undertaken to implement an extensive administrative reform , is not showing sufficient willingness to implement this reform . 
ENGLISH The many cases of foot - dragging , delay and refusal to hand over documents to the Committee on Budgetary Control , together with the extraordinary fact that crucial reports and minutes are disappearing from the record offices where they belong , are an uncomfortable indication that a form of administration is being maintained which is more suited to the age of absolute monarchy . 
ENGLISH Clearly , the purpose of the secrecy is to protect the Commission' - s members and officials from the penalties which are used in every democratic national administration and without which the European Union' - s administration will never operate properly . 
ENGLISH One year after coming into office , the Commission has still not presented any proposal for fundamentally changing the provisions in the regulations for public officials which provide the kind of legal protection for incompetence and dishonesty that is completely absurd in an administration which purports to be democratic . 
ENGLISH The treatment of this report in the Committee on Budgetary Control has also shown that some Members of the European Parliament are more concerned with protecting the Commission against those citizens who pay for the EU' - s budget than with attending to the same citizens' - demand that their money be administered honestly and efficiently . 
ENGLISH Unacceptable pressure has been placed upon a number of rapporteurs , and the shady operators who have an interest in preventing the serious examples of fraud and deception in the Commission' - s administration from coming to light have not held back from making physical threats . 
ENGLISH A number of MEPs have today voted in favour of giving discharge . 
ENGLISH I am convinced that , in the long run , the majority of MEPs will regret having been so indulgent . 
ENGLISH - ( DE ) On 6 June I as rapporteur recommended to the Committee on Budgetary Control that we give the Commission a discharge for the 1998 financial year . 
ENGLISH Today I voted against that discharge . 
ENGLISH The deciding factor was the way the Commissioner for budgets handled the Fléchard case . 
ENGLISH This firm was suspected of fraud as early as 1992 . 
ENGLISH Nonetheless , it was let off a fine to the tune of EUR 14.6 million . 
ENGLISH Nonetheless the Commission continued to do business with it all those years , without asking any questions . 
ENGLISH Now the Italian financial police are investigating and it is said that the firm is involved in shady deals and the black marketeering of butter on a grand scale . 
ENGLISH Of course , we must not prejudge . 
ENGLISH But the Commissioner for budgets does not have the right to refuse to tell us how many millions the Commission has paid to this firm over the past years . 
ENGLISH Mrs Schreyer promised the figures to the Committee on Budgetary Control on 24 May , but has still not produced them . 
ENGLISH She gives one excuse after another . 
ENGLISH On Tuesday , she tried to make this House believe , wrongly , that Regulation 2390 / 1999 prevented her from presenting the figures . 
ENGLISH If the Commission refuses to render account , our response can only be to refuse the discharge . 
ENGLISH Mrs Redondo has asked for the floor on a point of order . 
ENGLISH Mrs Redondo , we have been unable to vote on a number of legislative reports because there is just not enough time , and so these will be put to the vote this afternoon after the votes on urgent subjects , as usual . 
ENGLISH Mr President , I urgently request you to ensure in future that legislative texts are voted on first in the order of voting . For it really is Parliament' - s primary task to decide legislation ! 
ENGLISH I do not approve of the fact that we have suspended the vote after only an hour and a half today , but I will have to accept it . 
ENGLISH However , I am absolutely against an order of voting that automatically means that legislative texts are not taken until Thursday evening . 
ENGLISH As you are aware , certain decisions are taken by the Conference of Presidents . 
ENGLISH Usually , when voting time starts at midday it lasts for an hour . 
ENGLISH Today , it started at 12.15 p.m. and ended at approximately 1.30 p.m. The votes on certain resolutions , such as the European Council of Feira , Zimbabwe and the trafficking of human beings took a relatively short time . 
ENGLISH The votes on the legislative drafts take up rather a lot of time . 
ENGLISH We will take note of your comment and pass it on to the Conference of Presidents , for , in the order of voting , according to the procedure we have been following , out of all the recommendations for second reading -- which engage our capacity as a legislative House -- priority is given to the drafts which engage our power of colegislation . 
ENGLISH I am sorry , Mr President , to continue from where I left off a moment ago and come back to what Mr Swoboda just said . 
ENGLISH Mr President , I understand everything you have said . But this week for the first time we did not have a vote at noon on Tuesday . 
ENGLISH That is a decision that was taken . 
ENGLISH We were against ; the majority of the House -- had they known of it -- the rapporteurs -- Mrs Redondo Jiménez and Mr Arvidsson and others -- would no doubt also have been against it . 
ENGLISH But if we do this , then we must also show some degree of flexibility . 
ENGLISH The Thursday sitting in July is a particularly sensitive one . 
ENGLISH We know that , we may not be happy about it , but that is how it is . 
ENGLISH So I would ask you to check whether the four legislative reports that are still on the agenda , and that do not need long votes , can be carried over to the next part - session . 
ENGLISH Mrs Redondo Jiménez herself asked the same , in the case of her report , and she has my support . 
ENGLISH Mr Arvidsson -- all this relates to what I know about -- will , I hope , also agree . So I would ask you to contact the rapporteurs and the groups . 
ENGLISH Mrs Roth - Behrendt , as you are aware , a request can be made to postpone a debate either at the start of a sitting in the morning or at the start of voting time . 
ENGLISH Therefore , when voting time is resumed this afternoon , a rapporteur or another member of the Committee will be able to request that the report be put to the vote in September . 
ENGLISH Mr President , you are absolutely right , that is the correct procedure . 
ENGLISH But if we plan to do that and if it is certain that , let us say , Mr Swoboda or I or others move this proposal , it would be only fair to inform the rapporteurs of this possibility . 
ENGLISH In any case , the presiding President will be informed of the request and will , of course , give the floor to any Member who wishes to speak at that time . 
ENGLISH Mr President , I voted against the Rühle report . 
ENGLISH There has to be an error of at least 3 decimal points . 
ENGLISH Apart from this , I would like to stress that , in addition to the other aspects which are inadequate as the rapporteur himself states in his report -- which begs the question of why he does not conclude the report with a recommendation to vote against it -- it would be appropriate to give at least part of these funds to voluntary organisations , which include many pensioners and elderly people who are willing to go out into the world and assist developing countries . 
ENGLISH . ( FR ) The European Parliament , during its sitting of 13 April 2000, quite rightly decided to delay the decision giving discharge to the European Commission on the implementation of the budget for the year 1998 . 
ENGLISH This decision was legitimate , insofar as the citizens of our nations have the right to be told how the money of the European Union , their money , is being spent . 
ENGLISH Indeed , the irregularities noted , both those covered in Mrs Stauner' - s report on the questionable management of the Commission , and those underlined in Mrs Rühle' - s report on the various European Development Funds , cannot leave anyone indifferent , and necessarily damage the image and credibility of the Community as a whole . 
ENGLISH In addition , we must draw the proper conclusions , in terms of sanctioning those responsible , certainly , but also in establishing far more transparent procedures . 
ENGLISH As shown by the votes of the Committee on Budgetary Control , the reports by Mrs Rühle and Mrs Stauner are heading in this direction . 
ENGLISH Mrs Rühle' - s report on the various EDFs clearly confronts the Commission with its responsibilities ; it demands more clarity for all future aid distributed by the Community for the benefit of developing countries . 
ENGLISH The desire to raise moral standards regarding aid policy and increase the efficacy of the use of aid is a principle which is now clearly defined and our group is pleased with that . 
ENGLISH There is no question , however , of accepting that , on the pretext of better monitoring , in order to achieve a more honest and rational use of the European funds -- and I am thinking of African , Caribbean and Pacific countries in particular , that our action should be a pretext for also organising the unfounded trial of certain countries of the European Union -- incidentally one of the main net contributors ( I am talking about France ) -- by means of a witch hunt which , it is said , targets certain high - ranking civil servants of that nationality . 
ENGLISH Greater transparency is also our primary concern with regard to the finances of political groups within this House ; the citizens of Europe , moreover , would not understand if we said otherwise . 
ENGLISH We must also take note of the responses of our institution to the observations of the Court of Auditors , and without delay encourage all relevant reform in accordance with the financial regulation and the principle of transparency . 
ENGLISH In conclusion , I will say -- so much is clear -- that we should not introduce confusion between the discharge procedure , which represents an overall appreciation of the management of the European Commission as laid down by the Treaty , and the handling of a number of isolated matters which , although clearly serious , are still only isolated cases and represent a low figure with regard to the total budget . 
ENGLISH We must keep a sense of proportion ! 
ENGLISH Our Group congratulates the rapporteurs , Mrs Stauner , Mrs Rühle and Mr Kuhne , on their commendable efforts . We should , however , remain alert and be in a position to observe what the European Commission' - s attitude will actually be with regard to the commitments it has made . 
ENGLISH Our Group therefore considers it necessary , for the time being , to abstain . 
ENGLISH Kuhne report ( A5 - 0189 / 2000 ) 
ENGLISH -- ( DE ) I voted against giving a discharge to the Secretary - General because he gave misleading information to the political decision - making bodies about the purchase of the ASP building in Brussels . 
ENGLISH This wrongly gave the impression that the Council and the Commission had agreed to the building being financed with the help of the then property developer . 
ENGLISH Furthermore , this wrongly gave the impression that financing the building with the help of the property developer was an indirect form of financing . 
ENGLISH In fact , in 1988 Parliament directly indebted itself to a banking consortium headed by WestLB , for amounts of ECU 472 million and BEF 7 billion , without first publishing an invitation to tender for the contract in the Official Journal . 
ENGLISH The Court of Auditors also found that the relevant financial regulations had been infringed . 
ENGLISH Papayannakis report ( A5 - 0193 / 2000 ) 
ENGLISH . -- ( FR ) Only after the mad cow scandal did we realise the need to improve the traceability and labelling of foodstuffs . 
ENGLISH Europe was very slow to react and was left far behind in terms of beef . 
ENGLISH Today , on the basis of a unanimous agreement within the Council , we finally have the opportunity to show a little determination . 
ENGLISH Concerning the mandatory statements , indication of origin , implementation dates , minced meat and the optional system , I believe that Parliament should be satisfied : the Council has listened to us . 
ENGLISH This is why I wholeheartedly supported this common position as it stood and did not vote for any amendments . 
ENGLISH The debate has focused on a few specific points and in particular on the indication of the category of animal on the label . 
ENGLISH Certain fellow Members have explained , in good faith , that this statement does nothing to contribute to tracing beef . 
ENGLISH They are correct . 
ENGLISH However , after the series of food scandals , which this House has always vigorously denounced , how could we today omit to take account of the colossal role played by the consumer ? 
ENGLISH Specifically mentioning the category is a response to a demand . 
ENGLISH It contributes to restoring consumer confidence . 
ENGLISH Two types of information must be distinguished : 
ENGLISH information making it possible to improve traceability , but that is not directly intended to inform the end consumer . 
ENGLISH As it is too specific , it can really only be read by professionals . 
ENGLISH It fulfils a health function . 
ENGLISH It is on the basis of these statements that controls can be carried out . 
ENGLISH We are therefore talking about setting up identification and traceability systems ; 
ENGLISH the second type of information is directly intended for citizens like you and me , who buy their meat every day . 
ENGLISH What do they want to know ? 
ENGLISH They want to be sure that the product they are to consume is safe : the traceability and identification system will make it possible to guarantee the safety and quality of beef . 
ENGLISH But the citizen would also like to know what type of meat it is . 
ENGLISH This type of indication on the label is addressed directly to the end consumer and gives him intelligible information . 
ENGLISH It is a mistake to say that this is pointless . 
ENGLISH Europe must give consumers back their confidence , as they have been avoiding beef since the mad cow scandal . 
ENGLISH The implications are significant for the agro - food sector overall , which has been struck squarely by this crisis . 
ENGLISH These two types of information are not in competition ; they are complementary and contribute , each at their own level , to restoring the confidence of European consumers . 
ENGLISH The confidence of our consumers cannot be decreed , it must be won . 
ENGLISH Garcia - Orcoyen Tormo report ( A5 - 0165 / 2000 ) 
ENGLISH . -- It is a correct policy objective of the European Union to ensure that businesses carry out their affairs in an environmentally - friendly manner . 
ENGLISH What we are discussing here today is the revision of the original 1993 regulation which put in place the Community Eco - Management and Audit scheme . 
ENGLISH The criteria for inclusion on the EMAS register are very stringent . 
ENGLISH The fact of the matter is that there is public reporting of the results which are carried out by each national standards authority within every Member State of the European Union . 
ENGLISH Each national standards authority carries out a comprehensive and full review of all the activities of a prospective applicant under the EMAS scheme that may affect the environment . 
ENGLISH Under the new regulation which we are discussing here today easier access will be made for small - and medium - sized enterprises to apply for accreditation under the EMAS scheme . 
ENGLISH For the most part it has only been larger industrial companies which have sought recognition under the Community Eco - Management and Audit scheme to date . 
ENGLISH We must remember that the EMAS scheme is the European version of the International Standard known as ISO14001 . 
ENGLISH In essence , this ISO International Standard is the equivalent to the ISO9000 for European companies but with the appropriate environmental slant . 
ENGLISH It is the correct policy of the European Union to ensure that all companies in Europe respect the environment and ensure that the necessary practices are put in place to guarantee their operations do not adversely impact on the environment in any shape or form . That is why I fully support proposals to ensure that easier access will be made for small - and medium - sized enterprises to be incorporated under the EMAS framework . 
ENGLISH There must be greater flexibility within this system no matter how stringent the rules are to ensure that all sectors and all businesses in the European Union have an opportunity to secure accreditation under the Community Eco - Management and Audit scheme . 
ENGLISH I fully support this programme and commend this report . 
ENGLISH Recommendation for second reading : Breyer ( A5 - 0166 / 2000 ) 
ENGLISH Mr President , I voted for the recommendation , which sets limit values for benzene and carbon monoxide in the ambient air . 
ENGLISH Of course I am in favour of this , in that whenever there is a danger , pensioners and the elderly are always among the first to be affected , for , understandably , their lungs are often in bad shape . 
ENGLISH Apart from this , I would like to call strongly for there to be focus in the future not only on the air inhaled by the citizens , but also on the air inhaled by those who work with dangerous substances such as benzene and carbon monoxide . 
ENGLISH It would be appropriate for us to concern ourselves with this matter and reduce the working hours of those who work with dangerous substances to less than those of the other workers , to enable them to enjoy an average life span . 
ENGLISH I feel that the European Union should concern itself , in particular , with the conditions and working hours of the citizens who inhale those dangerous substances against which we rightly protect pedestrians . 
ENGLISH Workers should receive even greater protection . 
ENGLISH Mr President , I voted for the motion and I congratulate the rapporteur , Mrs Jackson , who worked so hard to ensure that this recommendation on the practical organisation of environmental inspections becomes a directive . 
ENGLISH There is no point in Parliament adopting hundreds and hundreds of extremely important and useful directives and regulations if adequate , effective , practical monitoring is not then carried out in order to ensure that they are genuinely implemented and are of benefit to all the citizens of the European Union , particularly -- as I said a moment ago -- when it is a matter of environmental health , as it is in this case , and when failure to observe the rules causes harm , above all , to pensioners and the elderly . 
ENGLISH . -- The principal aim of this recommendation is to strengthen the compliance with and to contribute to a more consistent implementation and enforcement of Community environmental law in the Member States . 
ENGLISH This draft recommendation establishes minimum criteria to be applied in the organising , carrying out , following up and publicising of the results of environmental inspections . 
ENGLISH It provides for environmental inspections of all industrial and other enterprises whose emissions and discharges on the environment are subject to particular authorisations or licensing requirements . 
ENGLISH This would certainly be the case for all companies who receive pollution control licences under the auspices of the Environmental Protection Agencies . 
ENGLISH Two types of inspections are foreseen , in particular , routine inspections carried out as part of a planned inspection programme and non - routine inspections as a follow - up to complaints in connection with the issue and renewal or modification of various licences . 
ENGLISH Under this draft recommendation , each plan should define the geographical area which it covers , cover a defined period of time , include specific provisions for its revision , identify the specific sites or types of installations covered , prescribe the programmes for routine environmental inspections , provide for and outline the procedures for non - routine environmental inspections , provide for coordination between the different inspecting authorities . 
ENGLISH I would like to commend the rapporteur , Caroline Jackson , for her report . 
ENGLISH In her report she is calling for this proposal to be translated into a directive which would have uniform application across the European Union . 
ENGLISH The rapporteur believes that only a directive can force the Member States to introduce these inspection systems . 
ENGLISH As a member of the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Policy of the European Parliament , I support the need for Member States to establish harmonised environmental inspections . 
ENGLISH The EU Council must listen to the European Parliament in this regard . 
ENGLISH The European Union also has competence in environmental matters under Article 130 of the Maastricht Treaty . 
ENGLISH Santa Maria da Feira European Council of 19 and 20 June 2000 
ENGLISH . -- ( EL ) There are four important observations to be made on the Portuguese presidency and the presidency 's closing summit in Santa Maria da Feira : 
ENGLISH By contrast , no positive action was taken to promote peace , as the continuing quagmire in Yugoslavia illustrates . 
ENGLISH Secondly , it is clear from developments at the Intergovernmental Conference that we are moving towards a " two - speed Europe " rather than towards democratisation , as continual reference to " closer cooperation " and various proposals to reduce the weighting of small countries in both the Council and the Commission illustrate . 
ENGLISH Thirdly , the European Union , under pressure from the United Kingdom in particular , failed to reach a specific agreement and binding timetable on tax information , leaving tax havens free to operate within the Union . 
ENGLISH Fourthly , the Lisbon Summit , midway through the Portuguese presidency , gave another sign in favour of abandoning the European welfare model and changing to the American model . 
ENGLISH -- ( DA ) The Danish Social Democrats in the European Parliament have voted today in favour of the resolution concerning the conclusions from the European Council' - s summit in Feira on 19 - 20 June 2000 . 
ENGLISH Our overall vote cannot , however , be taken as implying that we support the desire for an extended agenda at the Intergovernmental Conference and the legally binding incorporation of the Charter of Fundamental Rights into the Treaty . In this connection , we would refer to our explanations of vote on these matters , issued in connection with the Helsinki Summit , the calling of the Intergovernmental Conference , the European Parliament' - s position on the Intergovernmental Conference and preparations for the Feira Summit . 
ENGLISH I was unable to vote in favour of the compromise resolution , mainly because the paragraph on taxation is a little too sparse and casts a biased judgement on what was really decided in Feira . 
ENGLISH We should have confirmed the need to preserve the competitiveness of European financial markets by the simultaneous adoption of equivalent measures in key third countries and identical measures in associated or dependent territories . 
ENGLISH We should also have asked to receive the reports that the Commission should present at regular intervals on the application of information exchange systems and systems for taxation at source from savings , as well as the report on the basis of which the adoption and implementation of the directive are to be decided . 
ENGLISH I would remind you that this was not the case . 
ENGLISH I know that opinion on the tax compromise that we just managed to negotiate in Feira is divided . 
ENGLISH This is reflected in all the European press . 
ENGLISH I cannot help but name a few headlines from French language papers , - 'Delaying compromise on savings tax' - , - 'Doubts on Feira tax compromise' - , - 'Superficial agreement , fundamental disagreement' - , - 'lame agreement' - , - 'taxation at source , coexistence , nothing at all ? 
ENGLISH ' - or from the German language papers , - 'Brown the Scot boosts London as a financial centre . 
ENGLISH London leads the way in the EU tax battle' - , - 'Swiss banks see no need for action' - , - 'all financial centres must cooperate to do away with banking secrecy' - . 
ENGLISH The observation in the Basler Zeitung of 24 June is also telling , - 'We are more likely to see the Matterhorn crumble than the Swiss electorate release bank staff from their confidentiality obligations and the Bern Finance Minister become the tax collector for Brussels . ' - 
ENGLISH In this context , the headline in the Écho of 24 June , which accurately notes that - 'without sufficient guarantees , Luxembourg will block the taxation directive' - and that - 'the exchange of information should also be applied by competing markets' - , reflects what was really decided in Feira . 
ENGLISH The fact that our resolution complains about the Feira timetable illustrates the ignorance or delusion of the authors of this passage , whom I would like to remind of what the Luxembourg Prime Minister specified in Feira on this subject , that is , that with regard to taxation of savings - 'there are still around fifty technical matters which have never been discussed by the Commission' - . 
ENGLISH In this context , complaining that the timetable did not reflect the urgency of the problem is irresponsibly unrealistic . 
ENGLISH A surprising expression sprang from the lips of the last President of the Council , when he presented the summary of the Portuguese Presidency to us on Monday . 
ENGLISH - & # x2018 ; We must not & # x2019 ; - , declared Prime Minister Antonio Guterres , - & # x2018 ; Allow an intergovernmental drift to take place . 
ENGLISH & # x2019 ; - The debate on a federal Europe , which has just begun again , must take place as a whole . 
ENGLISH Is it not paradoxical to see the representative of the governments of the Member States denouncing the risk of an - & # x2018 ; intergovernmental drift & # x2019 ; - in the European Union ? 
ENGLISH The paradox is even greater as what is clearly obvious to everyone , or almost everyone , today , is that on the contrary federal formulas , and in particular the latest , that of intensified cooperation , inevitably lead to a dead end. In order to try to resolve the inescapable contradiction between federalism and enlargement , particular emphasis has been placed on the miracle formula of intensified cooperation throughout the Portuguese Presidency . 
ENGLISH It was even presented here on Tuesday by President Chirac , as a sort of universal solution , with a - & # x2018 ; vanguard & # x2019 ; - of - & # x2018 ; pioneer countries & # x2019 ; - clearing the way for all . 
ENGLISH Let us note in passing , with regard to vanguards , the reappearance in the framework of European federalism of expressions which were previously widely used in other ideological contexts . 
ENGLISH Not only is closer cooperation itself vigorously denounced , and rightly so , by the small - and medium - sized Member States , as damaging to their integrity , whereas sovereignty is a principle that guarantees the equality and respect of each . 
ENGLISH However , even within closer cooperation , it is clear that the application of the principle of the majority , in place of unanimity , could create unbearable tension , conferring a monopoly of decision making on one dominant country . 
ENGLISH Such that it seems that the qualified majority principle , if it cannot be applied to 35, cannot be applied to 2 or 3 either . 
ENGLISH It is becoming apparent that the - & # x2018 ; miracle solution & # x2019 ; - is in fact a dual source of tension , that could profoundly affect European cooperation . 
ENGLISH This is why , instead of closer cooperation , which would inevitably lead to dangerous tension , we propose differentiated cooperation , concluded between sovereign States that are free to decide to sign the agreements they want in the areas they want , provided that these are not damaging to the fundamental interests of their partners . 
ENGLISH Trafficking of human beings 
ENGLISH . -- ( FR ) The Lutte ouvrière Members share the indignation expressed by the GUE proposal , which we voted on , at the death of the 58 immigrants in Dover , and of so many others , who attempted to cross external or internal borders of the European Union . 
ENGLISH In order to put an end to a situation where poverty forces thousands of human beings to leave for lands where they hope to have a slightly better life , we must put an end to a social system which , in order to concentrate extraordinary riches in the hands of the few , enforces poverty on the majority of the planet . 
ENGLISH Obviously , a vote in Parliament will not bring about this upheaval , although it is an essential need for humanity . 
ENGLISH It is disgusting that , even in areas where current national and European institutions could actually do something , they do nothing . 
ENGLISH The barbed wire fence we are currently setting up around the European Union exists even within the Union for third country nationals , and these barriers can kill . 
ENGLISH Immigrants must be guaranteed the rights to which every human being should be entitled . 
ENGLISH We wish to protest most strongly at the policy of the French Government , which revels in its role as President of the European Union but which refuses to regularise 65 000 immigrant workers who have become illegal immigrants as a result of unfair laws , and we demand that their situation be regularised immediately . 
ENGLISH Mr President , I shall explain my vote in writing . 
ENGLISH However , may I submit a procedural motion ? 
ENGLISH Previously , when Members were present for the vote and an explanation of vote was made in writing , it was possible to leave , as the President used to state that he had received such and such a written explanation of vote on such and such a report . 
ENGLISH Now , we have to wait . 
ENGLISH Yesterday I waited 40 minutes to say that I was submitting my explanation of the vote in writing ! 
ENGLISH It is a waste of time . 
ENGLISH What we are doing is already somewhat inhuman : we vote from 12 p.m. to 1.30 p.m. and then we stay here until 4 p.m. to say that we are submitting a written explanation of vote ! 
ENGLISH The parliamentary services told me that I had to be here . 
ENGLISH Perhaps you would have agreed & # x2026 ; nevertheless , could we not clarify things ? 
ENGLISH I understand that Members who are not taking part in the vote on a report or resolution cannot submit a written explanation , but why must those who have taken part in the vote , who are submitting a written explanation , stay here for another half - hour ? 
ENGLISH Could you clarify that ? 
ENGLISH Mrs Lulling , whose fault are you saying it is ? 
ENGLISH Your fellow Members who are giving their explanations of vote ? 
ENGLISH If all the Members here had given their explanations of vote in writing you would have had your chance rather earlier . 
ENGLISH However , your fellow Members have the right to give explanations of vote on all the reports that we put to the vote . 
ENGLISH Mr President , I would like to comment on points 2 and 3, in which it is claimed that the Intergovernmental Conference is the key issue in the run - up to enlargement of the EU . 
ENGLISH This is not the case . 
ENGLISH The key issue is primarily that of how the negotiations with the candidate countries are handled and what result is achieved . 
ENGLISH There is still no final date set , and the candidate countries think that the EU is extremely imprecise regarding its position . 
ENGLISH I would also like to comment on point 10, the contents of which I think involve an unfortunate development in the direction of militarisation of the European Union . 
ENGLISH I am saying this also as a representative of a country that is non - aligned . 
ENGLISH What sort of a statement is this ? 
ENGLISH In this connection , I would like to quote the Swedish constitution and its words about - & # x2018 ; the ancient right of the Swedish people to impose taxes on themselves " . 
ENGLISH ( The sitting was suspended at 1.50 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m ) . 
ENGLISH Topical and urgent debate 
ENGLISH The next item is the debate on topical and urgent subjects of major importance . 
ENGLISH Mr Maaten has the floor for a point of order . 
ENGLISH Madam President , I would like to take the floor at the beginning of the topical debate , because , in accordance with Rule 146 of the Rules of Procedure , this is the right time to do this in my opinion . 
ENGLISH Indeed , the next item on the agenda is a resolution on Euro 2000 and hooligans . And although we are certainly in favour of discussing this matter , there are elements in this resolution which are still under investigation by the legal authorities in the Netherlands . 
ENGLISH In our view , therefore , it would be premature at this stage to pass judgement on this legal investigation . 
ENGLISH I would therefore move , based on Rule 146, to adjourn the debate on this resolution until our part - session in September . 
ENGLISH This Rule also stipulates that such a motion shall be put to the vote immediately . 
ENGLISH First of all , Mr Maaten , the article you are talking about only refers to one Group or 32 Members . 
ENGLISH Secondly , it does not directly concern the question of matters for topical and urgent debate , as the very principle of urgent matters is to discuss them at the beginning of the part - session in order to establish a framework for them . 
ENGLISH This is not like a referral back to committee . 
ENGLISH If it is accepted , we must follow the procedure through and the debate must take place . 
ENGLISH Madam President , I would ask you to communicate to Mrs Fontaine , so that she may make the relevant representations to the competent institutions , the great concern in the Gulf of Algeciras about the presence , for more than two months now , of the British nuclear submarine , HMS Tireless , which has broken down , apparently with a very serious problem relating to its cooling system . 
ENGLISH According to the latest information , it appears that they intend to repair it there . 
ENGLISH The inhabitants of the area have expressed their complete opposition to its being repaired there , by means of a joint resolution of the political groups which has been approved today . 
ENGLISH From this House , we urgently request that the British Government immediately remove this machine from the bay and repair it in England , where we suppose that they will at least have the appropriate facilities to do so . 
ENGLISH Madam President , there are nonetheless groups which support Mr Maaten' - s motion . He has spoken on behalf of the ELDR Group and I endorse his motion on behalf of the EDD Group . 
ENGLISH I would thus ask you to proceed to the vote in line with the Rules of Procedure . 
ENGLISH No , Mr Blokland , the Rules of Procedure do not lay down that the postponement of an urgent matter can be put to the vote . 
ENGLISH Topical and urgent matters are a very specific case . 
ENGLISH It was voted upon on Monday and this House , by sovereign right , drew up a framework for it . 
ENGLISH As soon as a matter becomes urgent , it cannot be postponed . 
ENGLISH Obviously , the arguments developed by you and Mr Maatten can be considered during the debate , but I am not putting the postponement of this debate to the vote . 
ENGLISH Madam President , you are interpreting the text in a specific way , but I read the text and it does not make any mention of exemptions for urgent debates . 
ENGLISH Every item that is put on Monday' - s agenda by the House can be taken off the agenda again in the course of the week , should it transpire that , on reflection , fresh arguments have come to light . 
ENGLISH New arguments have emerged in this instance . 
ENGLISH We now know that the Dutch justice system is launching an inquiry . 
ENGLISH It seems clear to me , therefore , that when we decided to discuss this matter on Monday , we did not have this piece of information at our disposal . 
ENGLISH We now have new information , which we need to take into account . 
ENGLISH I therefore believe that your interpretation of the Rules of Procedure is not according to the letter of the Rules of Procedure . 
ENGLISH Mr Blokland , I believe my interpretation is in line with the letter and spirit of our Rules of Procedure . 
ENGLISH Regardless of this , if new factors come into play , these can be communicated during the debate to provide additional information for our fellow Members when they come to vote . 
ENGLISH However , I stand by this interpretation , which is linked both to the principle of the agenda and the principle of urgent matters . 
ENGLISH Madam President , I simply wish to express my agreement with the words of the Member from the Partido Andalucista , from Andalucia , and suggest , as a place to repair the British nuclear submarine , the gardens of Buckingham Palace . That is where they could take the aforementioned - 'beast' - . 
ENGLISH All the arguments have been expressed on the subject of this postponement . 
ENGLISH I maintain my position and I now suggest that we move straight on to the debate on Fiji and the Solomon islands , as that is what our fellow Members are waiting for . 
ENGLISH The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions : 
ENGLISH B5 - 0607 / 2000 by Mr Speroni , on behalf of the Technical Group of Independent Members , on Fiji ; 
ENGLISH B5 - 0616 / 2000 by Mrs Ludford , on behalf of the Group of the Europe Liberal , Democrat and Reform Party , on the situation in Fiji and the Solomon Islands ; 
ENGLISH B5 - 0629 / 2000 by Mr Marset Campos , on behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left / Nordic Green Left , on the situation in Fiji and the Solomon Islands ; 
ENGLISH B5 - 0636 / 2000 by Mrs Lucas , on behalf of the Group of the Greens / European Free Alliance , on the situation in Fiji ; 
ENGLISH B5 - 0640 / 2000 by Mrs Lucas , on behalf of the Group of the Greens / European Free Alliance , on the situation in the Solomon Islands ; 
ENGLISH B5 - 0644 / 2000 by Mr van den Berg and Mrs Kinnock , on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists , on Fiji and the Solomon Islands . 
ENGLISH Madam President , what is happening in Fiji is further evidence that the pathetic dreams of those who believe in a multiethnic and multiracial society are unrealistic . 
ENGLISH Indeed , we can see that the conflict between the indigenous ethnic group and the immigrant ethnic group has flared up dramatically , although it is true that there has been relatively little bloodshed . 
ENGLISH The same thing is happening in the nearby Solomon Islands and all over the world . 
ENGLISH The events in the Great Lakes region in Africa , the events on the island of Timor and the current situation in the Moluccas are all evidence of the fact that peaceful cohabitation of communities with completely different traditions , cultures and histories cannot exist outside the good intentions of those who are for total globalisation . 
ENGLISH Therefore , in my opinion , we need to focus our efforts chiefly on protecting the indigenous ethnic groups , so that the indigenous Fijians do not share the fate of the South American Indians or the indigenous populations of Central and North America , and to ensure that their culture is preserved by controlling illegal immigration , so that what is happening there and has sadly already come about in the Balkans does not occur in Europe as well . 
ENGLISH In both Fiji and the Solomon Islands democratic government and law and order have been undermined . 
ENGLISH In Fiji the aim must be to restore the legitimate government elected on the basis of the 1997 multi - racial constitution , which was approved by both ethnic groups -- Indo - Fijians and indigenous Fijians . 
ENGLISH Violence against property and people must cease and the hostages released . 
ENGLISH The interim civilian administration installed in Fiji does not meet the constitutional or democratic tests . 
ENGLISH We therefore call on the Commission to begin with determination the procedures to suspend development cooperation with Fiji . 
ENGLISH Madam President , I want to concentrate on the Solomon Islands , but first just a word on Fiji . 
ENGLISH My ACP - EU Vice - President is one of those held hostage and I would ask you to send a letter of support to his family . 
ENGLISH The ACP - EU delegation went to the Solomon Islands to study the ethnic tension . 
ENGLISH It was quite clear after talks that a coup was imminent . 
ENGLISH Why did it happen ? 
ENGLISH The parliament was not functioning . 
ENGLISH This situation is unsustainable . 
ENGLISH The ethnic conflict is all about the expulsion from Guadalcanal of 40 000 Malaitans back to their own island , to severe hardship , without any compensation . 
ENGLISH The presence of Mrs Kinnock and myself did influence the situation for the better . 
ENGLISH We created dialogue . 
ENGLISH We had the 48 - hour resignation demand on the prime minister withdrawn . 
ENGLISH We advised them to recall Parliament and have a debate on the situation and this has now happened . 
ENGLISH Amazingly the leader of the opposition is now the prime minister . 
ENGLISH All this happened because we pointed out the European Union could withdraw aid if the coup took place at the point of a gun . 
ENGLISH That aid is 25 % of their GDP . 
ENGLISH But the country is bankrupt and the new prime minister will face the same problems as the last . 
ENGLISH He must make the parliamentary structure more active , work towards a cease - fire and then have talks on compensation with outside assistance . 
ENGLISH Outside help will also be needed to regain law and order . 
ENGLISH I should like to finish by thanking the members of the delegation office there who were so helpful to us . 
ENGLISH Madam President , ladies and gentlemen , it is true that the Pacific always evokes images of paradise : beaches , coconut palms , sun . 
ENGLISH Today , the reality is far sadder . 
ENGLISH The most incredible thing in this matter , apart from the passivity of our institutions , is that the pretext of interethnic tension is always used to explain such conflicts . 
ENGLISH We are well aware , however , that the true cause is not just that . 
ENGLISH In the Solomon Islands , the vast majority of the population is Melanesian and Christian . 
ENGLISH In Fiji , almost half the population is of Indian origin , but these origins date back to the last century . 
ENGLISH Moreover , in spite of these differences , all these people are at home in Fiji . 
ENGLISH I believe there are causes other than this ethnic conflict . 
ENGLISH For example , we deny the role played by those who make a profit from these conflicts : multinationals and local politicians . 
ENGLISH For the former , periods of instability mean fewer social , tax and environmental obligations as the State is very weak in these cases and conflicts favour the arms industry as the political groups need to get their weapons from somewhere . 
ENGLISH As far as politicians are concerned , the practice of pitting one group against another , as , for example , the far right does in Europe , allows a political vacuum to be created or power to be maintained . 
ENGLISH This practice is only possible because the population is poor and suffers from a lack of knowledge of other groups . 
ENGLISH In this case , the two conflicts should have enabled some people to take back or gain power that they could not win through the ballot box . 
ENGLISH In Fiji , the coup d' - état was fomented by a bankrupt businessman who used his distant Fiji origins to legitimise his actions . 
ENGLISH As for the new Prime Minister , he is also from a business background . 
ENGLISH In the Solomon Islands , a sham parliamentary vote brought a new Prime Minister to power , elected by the power of the gun . 
ENGLISH These two examples support our vision of the conflict . 
ENGLISH The joint resolution , however , is too sanctimonious and effectively wants to restore the previous situation . 
ENGLISH As is all too often the case , it does not refer to the true sources of these conflicts : poverty and the underlying self - interested role of political and economic participants . 
ENGLISH From this point of view , if we want to be really effective , we must prevent further conflicts and to do so , we must genuinely aid the development of education , the local economy and local democracy . 
ENGLISH This is how we might succeed in changing things . 
ENGLISH Madam President , my comments will be on the question of Fiji . 
ENGLISH Some days ago , a number of ethnic Fijian Indians representing that community and the Indian diaspora who are concerned about these conflicts came to the Parliament . 
ENGLISH They expressed their deepest concern about the situation in Fiji , about its symbolism and how it could affect Indian communities in other areas of the world . 
ENGLISH Their concern was not precisely for the ethnic Indian community , it was for Fiji . 
ENGLISH It was designed to solve the ethnic problems in the islands , including the land issue and that constitution was unanimously approved by an ethnic - Fijian - dominated Parliament and blessed by the Great Council Of Chiefs . 
ENGLISH Clearly the lawlessness and violence has undermined that constitution but we must look more deeply at the causes of the conflict . 
ENGLISH This House has to ensure that in those countries where we give aid we monitor the breakdown of law and order and look at the interests of those ethnic minorities who are in danger . 
ENGLISH The concerns expressed are very real . 
ENGLISH We have the ability to suspend aid if we believe that there is something going wrong in Fiji . 
ENGLISH Myself and Glenys Kinnock and other colleagues who have met with the ethnic Indian community want to help them find a solution to this conflict . 
ENGLISH Madam President , ladies and gentlemen , the Commission has been observing the events in Fiji since 18 May with growing concern . 
ENGLISH It really is discouraging to see the achievements of an entire decade put at risk . 
ENGLISH Fiji had a constitution that was not based on racism . 
ENGLISH It had a democratically elected government . 
ENGLISH That has fallen and been replaced by an interim government appointed by the military . 
ENGLISH Fiji has already suffered enormous economic damage at this point . 
ENGLISH There is a risk that investors will lose confidence in it . 
ENGLISH It even risks being expelled from the Commonwealth . 
ENGLISH The Commission is currently preparing a proposal to the Council on the application of Article 366a of the Lomé Convention because , in its the view , the fundamental principles of the Convention -- democracy , the rule of law and respect for human rights -- are no longer guaranteed in Fiji . 
ENGLISH Let me remind you that this proposal initially provides for consultations between the parties . 
ENGLISH Further measures or sanctions will only be decided in a second stage , on the basis of the results of the consultations and how they are assessed . 
ENGLISH So it is too early , at this point in time , to contemplate further measures or sanctions . 
ENGLISH Any response on our part should be well - considered and targeted . 
ENGLISH A trade ban , as called for by unions in Australia and New Zealand , would result in the dismissal of more than 40 000 workers in the clothing and tourist industry , and that should be avoided . 
ENGLISH Turning to the Solomon Islands , here too the Commission has been observing the deteriorating security situation with concern . 
ENGLISH The Commission supports all the efforts made by the mediators to ensure that the parties concerned can discuss the outstanding issues and differences of opinion openly and without the threat of violence . 
ENGLISH The Commission is ready to use its instruments to support the peace process as soon as the political and security situation allows it . 
ENGLISH The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m . 
ENGLISH The next item is the joint debate on the following joint motions for resolutions : 
ENGLISH B5 - 0608 / 2000, by Mr Pannella and others , on behalf of the Technical Group of Independent Members , on the need to stop Chinese colonisation and adopt a new Statute for Tibet ; 
ENGLISH B5 - 0617 / 2000, by Mrs Muscardini and Mr Collins , on behalf of the Union for a Europe of Nations Group , on Tibet ; 
ENGLISH B5 - 0621 / 2000, by Mr Thomas Mann and Mr Bowis , on behalf of the Group of the Europe People' - s Party ( Christian Democrats ) and European Democrats , on the Western China Poverty Reduction Project and the future of Tibet ; 
ENGLISH B5 - 0641 / 2000, by Mr Messner and Mrs Frassoni , on behalf of the Group of the Greens / European Free Alliance , on the urgent need for Sino - Tibetan negotiations with a view to the adoption of a new Statute for Tibet ; 
ENGLISH B5 - 0645 / 2000, by Mr Sakellariou and Mr Veltroni , on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists , on Tibet 
ENGLISH Madam President , Commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , I think we are preparing to vote on an important text on Tibet , and that today we have the opportunity to make a qualitative leap forward in this fundamental battle . 
ENGLISH This is a battle of law , and of international law . 
ENGLISH Tibet is occupied , Tibet was invaded by Chinese troops in 1949 and since then has been occupied and colonised by the Chinese . 
ENGLISH I think that we must , of course , vote en masse in favour of this resolution , but that we must also vote for the amendment tabled by Mr Thomas Mann , by the liberal group and by the Group of the Greens , an amendment which asks our governments to consider the possibility of recognising the exiled Tibetan Government if , within three years , the Chinese authorities and the exiled Tibetan Government have not ultimately signed an agreement on the substantial autonomy of Tibet . 
ENGLISH We can no longer leave the decision not to tackle the problem up to the goodwill , or in this case the ill will , of the authorities of Beijing . 
ENGLISH We must oblige them and , through political action by Parliament , assert our determination to see this matter , which has lasted 50 years , finally resolved . 
ENGLISH I would particularly like to call on my left - wing , socialist and communist friends to stop using double standards ! 
ENGLISH We all remember the great battles to decolonise Africa , the liberation of Algeria and Vietnam . 
ENGLISH Look at the results today : the latter is still in the hands of a totalitarian system , a dictatorship . 
ENGLISH Today , in Tibet , there is a non - violent fight for democracy . 
ENGLISH There is no reason not to do here what we did there , what many of us did in those days . 
ENGLISH Today , the matter of Tibet must become a matter of law , an affirmation of non - violence by the international community . 
ENGLISH China is a large country which has a right to democracy . 
ENGLISH So much is clear , but that cannot be a reason to further sacrifice the right of Tibetans to live with their own culture , in full autonomy in every area that must be governed by the people . 
ENGLISH I therefore sincerely invite my socialist and communist friends to vote for this resolution and this amendment , in order to make sure that , at least this once , Parliament is at the forefront of this battle for freedom , democracy and non - violence . 
ENGLISH Madam President , happy birthday Dalai Lama ! 
ENGLISH But I am not sure that today is such a happy day for him , because after all , the most valuable contribution which the EU can make to the world is standing up for human rights and democracy , and these are still being flouted in Tibet . 
ENGLISH In the light of this , I would like to make the following observations . 
ENGLISH First of all , why is it that there is still no real dialogue at official level between the Chinese Government and the Tibetan Government in exile ? 
ENGLISH All manner of so - called indirect contacts have led to nothing . 
ENGLISH Secondly , how can a renowned institution such as the World Bank be on the brink of financing a Chinese programme which is tantamount to a common or garden colonisation of Tibet ? 
ENGLISH This has to be prevented and hence this resolution . 
ENGLISH Thirdly , how can the European Union possibly be one to let economic interests prevail in its relations with China ? 
ENGLISH Surely we cannot offer the Tibetan population attention only when it suits us ? 
ENGLISH In sum , Madam President , I would urge you to ensure that a real dialogue is established according to the Dalai Lama' - s five - point peace plan ; it will then be a happy day for Tibet' - s entire population . 
ENGLISH Mr President , Commissioner Verheugen , ladies and gentlemen , tomorrow the World Bank will be taking a decision with very serious implications for Tibet . 
ENGLISH The aim is to provide international support to alleviate the poverty in western China , and surely everyone is prepared in principle to help those who cannot do much to help themselves . 
ENGLISH In the framework of this project , however , 58 000 people are to be forcibly resettled in Tibet . Resettlement on that scale might well gradually turn the Tibetans into a minority in their own homeland , after decades of destruction of their culture and their monasteries , of persecution and threat to life and limb ! 
ENGLISH A fortnight ago , the Members of our Intergroup on Tibet and many other MEPs urged the President of the World Bank in Washington not to go against the Bank' - s own principles for the protection of endangered peoples . 
ENGLISH We have written to the national parliaments , to the ministries of finance in Europe , the USA and other continents , and of course to Commissioner Chris Patten . 
ENGLISH We have urgently requested the members of the Board of the World Bank to study the report drawn by independent inspectors very carefully first . 
ENGLISH For the inspectors seriously doubt whether the resettlement is environmentally correct or socially acceptable because of an irrigation programme . 
ENGLISH If public monies are spent , the justification for doing so must be made just as public . 
ENGLISH Strengthened by its planned membership of WTO , China , as I myself recently found in Beijing , is becoming increasingly aware of its role as an emerging world power . 
ENGLISH But that also implies an obligation to act more responsibly than before and , for instance , to apply the concept of - & # x2018 ; one China -- many systems & # x2019 ; - . 
ENGLISH The full autonomy granted to Tibet must finally be guaranteed . 
ENGLISH That includes freedom of religion , freedom of opinion , cultural and social independence . 
ENGLISH Bilateral talks must be held with authorised leaders . 
ENGLISH The Dalai Lama is available for this at any time . 
ENGLISH As my colleague pointed out , this Nobel peace - prize winner , who is accepted worldwide , is celebrating his 65th birthday today and has been the Tibetans' - leader for precisely 50 years . 
ENGLISH His five - point peace plan , which reflects his profound belief in non - violence , remains as valid as ever . 
ENGLISH It is high time to hold constructive dialogues on that basis . 
ENGLISH On behalf of the EPP Group and the Intergroup on Tibet , I call on all the Members of the European Parliament to support our resolution . 
ENGLISH Only a worldwide protest shortly before the World Bank' - s decision , which is in fact due tomorrow , can prevent things from going seriously off course . 
ENGLISH Tashi delek ! 
ENGLISH Madam President , Commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , we are just about to vote , for the thirteenth time , on a resolution concerning Tibet , and we have to say , if we examine the effect these have had in the past , it is exceptionally poor . 
ENGLISH This is why I am addressing the Commissioner . 
ENGLISH I would like the European Union , with its three powerful institutions , to join forces and appeal to world opinion , the Chinese authorities and especially the World Bank . 
ENGLISH As fellow MEPs have already explained , we need to put a stop to internal colonisation , this brutal murder of the cultural identity of the Tibetan population . 
ENGLISH That is only possible if the World Bank stops financing precisely the opposite , namely the import of Chinese people with a view to destroying Tibet' - s original culture . 
ENGLISH How can we justify spending taxpayers' - money on this kind of practice ? 
ENGLISH I hope you will help us bring about a U - turn , as requested by my fellow MEPs in the amendment ; a U - turn which prescribes that , if there is no change in three years' - time , we will eventually decide to recognise Tibet' - s provisional government rather than continue to tread water . 
ENGLISH In our opinion , it is essential for Parliament to speak out against the World Bank 's decision . 
ENGLISH We call upon the governments to do everything in their power and use every avenue available to them -- economic and otherwise , in view of the fact that China wants to join the WTO etc. -- to ensure that China respects Tibet 's autonomy and that negotiations are resumed as soon as possible between the Chinese Government and the Dalai Lama with the intention of establishing a new statute for Tibet . This is the first point of our conclusions in this resolution . 
ENGLISH The negotiations must be based on the Dalai Lama 's five - point programme , which has our full support . We would also like to wish him a happy birthday . 
ENGLISH Madam President , 50 years on we have been celebrating over the last few years the end of the war , the founding of the United Nations , the founding of the World Health Organisation , the return of independence to the Baltic Nations from the Soviet Empire , but sadly also 50 years on we have to commemorate China 's illegal occupation of Tibet : fifty years of suppression and oppression of the Tibetan people by the Chinese regime . 
ENGLISH That must never be allowed to become a fait accompli hence the amendment to this resolution to put pressure on China , which I warmly support . 
ENGLISH Hence , also , the overall resolution to demand of the World Bank that it withdraw its support for our so - called project which would mean the movement of some 60,000 Chinese into an area currently populated by 4,000 Tibetans making a living with their herds , and the exploitation of Tibet 's natural resources . 
ENGLISH Both actions are immoral , both are against international law , both demand action by this Parliament and this Union on behalf of Tibet and its people . 
ENGLISH Mr President , to begin with , I would like to say that I am speaking today on behalf of the Nordic Green Left Party . 
ENGLISH We think that the Tibetans should have the autonomy that they themselves are striving for . 
ENGLISH We are also concerned about China' - s unwillingness to participate in a dialogue . 
ENGLISH I would like to address the Commissioner and say that I hope that the Commission has very good relations with the representatives of the World Bank . 
ENGLISH Decisions must , of course , be made by no later than tomorrow . 
ENGLISH We have therefore only got an extremely short time in which to influence the World Bank , to which this resolution is , of course , primarily directed . 
ENGLISH It is , of course , usually quite difficult to have any influence on the World Bank at all . 
ENGLISH I would therefore like to be told formally whether it is possible for Parliament to wield any influence at all or whether we should try in the course of the night to get hold of our government representatives . 
ENGLISH The Council is , of course , not represented here to any great extent . 
ENGLISH I have had occasion to witness the situation in Tibet personally . It is far more serious , humiliating and painful than it is possible to describe in this Chamber or at any other meeting . 
ENGLISH That is why it is necessary for a Parliament which is so concerned with human rights and combating xenophobia and racism to call upon China to negotiate another statute recognising the rights of the Tibetans in full and genuinely guaranteeing the full autonomy of the Tibetan people . 
ENGLISH If we continue to sacrifice principles and rights in the name of the economy , apart from making pious declarations of intent in Parliamentary debates it will be extremely difficult to find a genuine solution for the Tibetan people . 
ENGLISH Madam President , the Commission , like Parliament , is deeply concerned about the human rights situation in Tibet . 
ENGLISH We are particularly concerned about respect on the part of the Chinese authorities for the cultural , linguistic and religious identity of the autonomous region of Tibet . 
ENGLISH We have raised this issue repeatedly during the bilateral dialogue with China on the subject of human rights . 
ENGLISH In our view , a direct dialogue between the Dalai Lama and the Chinese authorities is the only realistic way of achieving a lasting and peaceful solution to the issue of Tibet . 
ENGLISH With regard to cooperation , the European Union takes the view that it is in the interest of the Tibetan people that we support aid projects in Tibet , provided the group of ethnic Tibetans benefits directly from them and is given priority in the management of the projects . 
ENGLISH That is precisely what happened in the past when the Chinese authorities gave an official assurance to that effect . 
ENGLISH On the question of the World Bank project , I can inform you that the Commission is not involved in that project . 
ENGLISH If any influence at all can still be brought to bear , it would be up to the Member States to do so . 
ENGLISH Human rights 
ENGLISH The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions : 
ENGLISH B5 - 0630 / 2000 by Mr Sylla and Mr Vinci , on behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left / Nordic Green Left , on Uganda ; 
ENGLISH B5 - 0637 / 2000 by Mrs Maes and Mrs Lambert , on behalf of the Group of the Greens / European Free Alliance , on the abduction of children in Uganda ; 
ENGLISH B5 - 0646 / 2000 by Mr van den Berg , on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists , on the abduction of children in Uganda ; 
ENGLISH Situation in the Moluccas 
ENGLISH B5 - 0609 / 2000 by Mr Belder , on behalf of the Group of the Europe Liberal , Democrat and Reform Party , on the Moluccas ; 
ENGLISH B5 - 0612 / 2000 by Mr Maaten , on behalf of the group of the Europe Liberal , Democrat and Reform Party , on the Moluccas ; 
ENGLISH B5 - 0623 / 2000 by Mrs Maij - Weggen , on behalf of the Group of the Europe People' - s Party ( Christian Democrats ) and European Democrats , on the Moluccas ; 
ENGLISH B5 - 0643 / 2000 by Mrs McKenna and Mrs Langendijk , on behalf of the Group of the Greens / European Free Alliance , on the Moluccas ; 
ENGLISH B5 - 0647 / 2000 by Mr van den Berg , on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists , on the Moluccas ; 
ENGLISH Death penalty in the United States 
ENGLISH B5 - 0613 / 2000 by Mrs Malmström , Mr Haarder and Mr Watson , on behalf of the Group of the Europe Liberal , Democrat and Reform Party , on the death penalty in the United States and the case of the Italian - American citizen Derek Rocco Barnabei ; 
ENGLISH B5 - 0619 / 2000 by Mr Dupuis and others , on behalf of the Technical Group of Independent Members -- Mixed Group , on the forthcoming execution of Derek Rocco Barnabei in Virginia ; 
ENGLISH B5 - 0624 / 2000 by Mr Salafranca Sánchez - Neyra and others , on behalf of the Group of the Europe People' - s Party ( Christian Democrats ) and European Democrats , on the death penalty in the United States ; 
ENGLISH B5 - 0631 / 2000 by Mr Cossutta and others , on behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left / Nordic Green Left , on the death penalty in the United States and the case of Mr Derek Rocco Barnabei ; 
ENGLISH B5 - 0638 / 2000 by Mrs Maes and others , on behalf of the Group of the Greens / European Free Alliance , on the death penalty ; 
ENGLISH B5 - 0648 / 2000 by Mr Veltroni and Mrs Díez González , on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists , on the death penalty in the United States and in particular the case of Rocco Barnabei ; 
ENGLISH Hooligans 
ENGLISH B5 - 0625 / 2000 by Mr Van Hecke and others , on behalf of the Group of the Europe People' - s Party ( Christian Democrats ) and European Democrats , on hooliganism during Euro 2000 ; 
ENGLISH B5 - 0632 / 2000 by Mr Papayannakis , Mr Sylla and Mr Cossutta , on behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left -- Nordic Green Left , on hooliganism during Euro 2000 ; 
ENGLISH B5 - 0649 / 2000 by Mr Desama and Mr van den Berg , on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists , on hooliganism during Euro 2000 ; 
ENGLISH Iraq 
ENGLISH B5 - 0614 / 2000 by Baroness Nicholson of Winterbourne , on behalf of the Group of the Europe Liberal , Democrat and Reform Party , on Iraq ; 
ENGLISH B5 - 0618 / 2000 by Mrs Muscardini and Mr Andrews , on behalf of the Union for a Europe of Nations Group , on Iraq ; 
ENGLISH B5 - 626 / 2000 by Mr Khanbhai and others , on behalf of the Group of the Europe People' - s Party ( Christian Democrats ) and European Democrats , on Iraq ; 
ENGLISH B5 - 633 / 2000 by Mrs Morgantini and others , on behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left / Nordic Green Left , on Iraq ; 
ENGLISH B5 - 0639 / 2000 by Mrs McKenna and others , on behalf of the Group of the Greens / European Free Alliance , on the United Nations embargo in Iraq ; 
ENGLISH B5 - 0650 / 2000 by Mr Sakellariou , on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists , on the situation in Iraq ; 
ENGLISH Child soldiers in Uganda 
ENGLISH Madam President , Commissioner , one could say a lot about this issue . 
ENGLISH Firstly , I hope , in particular , that the Council and the Commission will be active when it comes to also taking up this issue in the Security Council when the action plan concerning children in armed conflicts will be debated at the end of this month . 
ENGLISH Secondly , we have today noted with satisfaction that attempts are being made to reach a common solution to at least one other conflict regarding child soldiers . 
ENGLISH Thirdly , we can confirm that we have made a certain amount of general progress with regard to child soldiers . 
ENGLISH We have the voluntary Supplementary Protocol against Child Soldiers and the Activities in Africa . 
ENGLISH I would ask the House to support this resolution . 
ENGLISH Madam President , the situation in Northern Uganda and Southern Sudan is the setting for the drama of the child - soldiers . 
ENGLISH The aim of my speech and of the resolution which has just been tabled is to prompt Parliament and the institutions to adopt ongoing initiatives which do more than just respond to moments of crisis . 
ENGLISH Their favourite victims are children and adolescents because they are vulnerable and easily influenced . 
ENGLISH To date , approximately 60 % of the soldiers in the Lord 's Resistance Army are children under the age of 16 . 
ENGLISH The strategy is precisely to manipulate the children and subject them to brutal force so that they will in turn be able to kill and torture others . 
ENGLISH Adolescent girls are given to the rebels as wives , but the most noticeable thing is that not even the Nairobi Agreements between Uganda and the Sudan last December have caused the LRA to change its attitude . 
ENGLISH During the last few days , I have had the opportunity to talk to one of the girls who has escaped from the fields of Southern Sudan , who confirmed that the LRA has no intention of changing its position . 
ENGLISH Further evidence of this is the funeral of John Baptista Ochaia , the representative of the Chairman of Kitgum district council , who died the day before yesterday from wounds received during an LRA ambush , which took place today in Uganda . 
ENGLISH It is therefore unacceptable that the European authorities and many commercial entities should maintain an attitude almost of tacit approval of this situation , without making any attempt to break the circle which is robbing a generation of its future . 
ENGLISH However , we have reached another level of barbarism and abjectness when children are used to fight and kill or be killed . 
ENGLISH Nor does it hesitate to sexually exploit women and girls . 
ENGLISH When these children survive , it must be said , they are in any case scarred for life . 
ENGLISH It takes time , patience and love to restore their hope . 
ENGLISH This is why we must increase aid and support for UNICEF , which has set up an action programme enabling children to return to a normal life . 
ENGLISH Madam President , we must also stop pussyfooting around . 
ENGLISH In my opinion , this amounts to collusion , which makes Sudan just as guilty . 
ENGLISH And Parliament must intervene to urge the Ugandan Government to find a peaceful solution to this conflict in the north of Uganda , which , let me remind you , has been the cause of 100 000 deaths in 15 years . 
ENGLISH The whole population is waiting for this solution and all the children are hoping for it . 
ENGLISH The Security Council must hear this plea . 
ENGLISH Madam President , I am really pleased that this resolution has come about . 
ENGLISH Some weeks ago , a documentary from Southern Sudan was shown on Swedish television . 
ENGLISH This documentary claimed that foreign investors and oil companies , including an oil company from my home country , Sweden , are being protected by troops which make use of child soldiers . 
ENGLISH These accusations have also been supported by Amnesty International , which has explained that certain oil revenues are also used to finance the civil war in Southern Sudan . 
ENGLISH There , they use child soldiers from Uganda , who are forced into armed conflict . 
ENGLISH We must put pressure on the international oil companies and on investors . 
ENGLISH We must , as is stated in point 8 of the resolution , strongly urge these companies to cease their activities in Sudan until a peaceful solution to the conflict has been found . 
ENGLISH What is clear is that despite the 1999 Nairobi Agreement , it has not been possible to apply this agreement in an adequate manner . 
ENGLISH This brings us to the question of the EU' - s authority and the willingness on the part of the Member States to act as a united front in that region . 
ENGLISH I would ask Commissioner Verheugen specifically whether he is absolutely clear about the point mentioned in the resolution , that of bringing the investments in both oil and oil pipelines in Sudan to a halt for the time being . 
ENGLISH If we exert pressure to bring about peace and make sure we gain control in that northern region , this could lead to very concrete steps within a foreign policy which combines the aid component , the foreign component and the trade component . 
ENGLISH Such action is a matter of great priority . 
ENGLISH At the moment , we only see these figures and examples increase , and at the same time , we notice that we are exerting too little pressure , although we have more clout there than we have made use of to date . 
ENGLISH This brings me to the wider issue of the United Nations . 
ENGLISH The protocol was accepted in the General Assembly in May . 
ENGLISH In July , a debate will be held in the Security Council . 
ENGLISH This would , of course , be a wonderful example of a Europe which does not only hold forth internally , but also takes steps externally . We , all the European Member States together , are very much in favour of the eighteen years , swift conclusion by signature and effective , coordinated action by the different countries where matters such as education and the re - integration of child soldiers are concerned . 
ENGLISH We do a great deal financially in this respect in different countries . 
ENGLISH We have a good reputation there . 
ENGLISH It would be beneficial if we could act under one banner and with one voice . 
ENGLISH I would be interested to find out from Commissioner Verheugen how he rates our chance of success in July . 
ENGLISH Madam President , I was in Uganda in January when some of the abducted little girls who were put into the army by the LRA were released . 
ENGLISH Many of these young girls lose sight of their families and are gone for many years from their own homes . 
ENGLISH As a result of rape and abuse they become mothers themselves , which further alienates them from the communities from which they have been so brutally taken . 
ENGLISH However many finely - worded resolutions we have , as long as we in the Community fail to get to grips with the issues relating to children in our own community , we do not have a strong voice to raise our concerns about this . 
ENGLISH Many of our policies affect children 's rights and interests but this week Commissioner Prodi said he did not feel it was necessary to have a dedicated unit looking at children 's rights within the Community . 
ENGLISH Situation in the Moluccas 
ENGLISH Madam President , the Moluccas require our attention once again . 
ENGLISH After a relatively quiet period , the recent arrival of a few thousand Jihad fighters who aim to enforce the Islam religion on the Moluccan islands has led to renewed escalations of violence . 
ENGLISH The peaceful coexistence of Muslims and Christians , which lasted for years , seems to be broken for good . 
ENGLISH The brave attitude of President Wahid should not go unmentioned . 
ENGLISH Last week , he even dared criticise the position of the members of parliament . 
ENGLISH If it were up to the Indonesian President , there would be hope for a peaceful future on the Moluccas . 
ENGLISH However , the dark forces that still pervade the administrative apparatus , namely within the army , police and government , have a very destabilising effect on the situation . 
ENGLISH It still requires a great deal of effort to identify the fundamentalist elements of whatever religious grouping . 
ENGLISH I would like to make a few specific recommendations to the Indonesian Government . 
ENGLISH The stark differences of opinion within the region' - s own army and police seem to sabotage Indonesia' - s efforts to end conflict off its own bat . 
ENGLISH Finally , I would like to ask your attention for the victims of these conflicts , namely the ordinary citizens . 
ENGLISH In this conflict , we should not only spend time pointing the finger , we should first and foremost supply adequate aid to the refugees . 
ENGLISH A humanitarian corridor is essential in this respect . 
ENGLISH We wholeheartedly back the request to the Commission and Member States to give generously . 
ENGLISH The lack of political and economic interests in that region should not determine the level of aid . 
ENGLISH This is about relieving the real suffering that is pervading the Moluccas . 
ENGLISH Madam President , I wonder whether history is repeating itself in Indonesia . 
ENGLISH The bloody confrontations between Muslims and Christians are jeopardising safety within the Moluccas . 
ENGLISH Thousands of people have been killed or have taken refuge , and the new fragile democratisation process , which has been initiated so ambitiously by the Wahid government , is under enormous threat . 
ENGLISH This is reminiscent of East Timor only a few months ago . 
ENGLISH As an MEP visiting with the observation delegation , I saw for myself how harrowing the effects of this can be . 
ENGLISH We need to realise that the violence within the Moluccas is threatening stability within the entire region . 
ENGLISH It is therefore vital that the international community offer immediate financial and moral support in order to solve the problems in Indonesia . 
ENGLISH The international community also has a duty to monitor the situation closely on a permanent basis and help the government there to end this human tragedy in whatever way it can . 
ENGLISH Madam President , as rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs , Human Rights , Common Security and Defence Policy reporting on Indonesia , I did hesitate for a moment before I tabled this resolution because we will certainly be having a huge debate on the relationship between the European Union and Indonesia in the autumn . 
ENGLISH However , the situation on the Moluccas is so critical that we need to treat it as an urgent matter . 
ENGLISH After a few months of peace and quiet in that area , violence has flared up again over the past few weeks , and once again , dozens of people have been killed and once again , thousand of people have fled . 
ENGLISH The tragedy of the boat filled with refugees travelling from Duma on Halmahera has probably claimed the lives of up to five hundred people . 
ENGLISH Only yesterday , the Jihad fighters burnt down two housing estates in Ambon . 
ENGLISH In that area , more than three thousand have now been killed and more than one hundred thousand people have fled . 
ENGLISH Madam President , despite this tragedy , I believe we ought to pledge our support to President Wahid and Vice - President Sukarnoputri . 
ENGLISH It is not they , but the opposition powers working against this government that seem to aggravate the situation within the Moluccas . 
ENGLISH It seems that the Jihad militiamen are being financed and armed by these groups , and sometimes backed by regional military forces , which are , in fact , supposed to protect the population . 
ENGLISH In our opinion , however , the Indonesian government should intervene more powerfully in order to protect the Moluccan population . 
ENGLISH We also believe that international observers , journalists and aid workers should be granted access to the area in order to help the Moluccan citizens . 
ENGLISH But more than anything , the EU should adopt a clear stance , just as the United States has done , and the EU should step up its aid efforts for the victims . 
ENGLISH Madam President , our green colleagues have tabled a number of amendments which may have been compiled with the best of intentions but are to my mind counterproductive , because they might be playing into the hands of the powers working against the government , i.e. those who are helping to stage the violent attacks on the Moluccas . 
ENGLISH I therefore reject the amendment to Article 7 ( a ) and would ask the MEPs of the other groups to do the same . 
ENGLISH This is also the thrust of the resolution and I would like a sound response from the European Commission . 
ENGLISH Madam President , ladies and gentlemen , it is becoming increasingly clear that the violence on the Moluccas is not a chaotic , spontaneous fight between the local population , between local Muslims and Christians . 
ENGLISH It is a brutal power struggle and well - directed fight between sections of the army , between the government and government opponents , at the expense of the local population . 
ENGLISH On the one hand there is Laskar Jihad , a group of fanatical Muslims backed by sections of the army . 
ENGLISH On the other hand there are special police troops , which back the Christians . 
ENGLISH In other words , the security apparatus which should guarantee stability , is divided over two camps . 
ENGLISH In my opinion , the message which the European Parliament should give President Wahid -- and in this sense I hope I can reassure Mrs Maij - Weggen -- is that we will remain critical of the progress and speed of reforms , the status of human rights and the way in which the government protects the citizens on the Moluccas . 
ENGLISH However , we must also let him know that we support him in his fight against those sections of the army which are of course trying to undermine democratic reform , in his battle against people like Amien Rais , the chairman of the People' - s Consultative Assembly who , for example , referred to young people devoted to the Laskar Jihad as the heart of the nation . 
ENGLISH In that sense , he deserves our support , but I also want us to remain critical about issues which are not going so well yet in Indonesia . 
ENGLISH Madam President , on behalf of the Socialist Group , I would like to endorse what Mrs Maij - Weggen stated . 
ENGLISH It is vital to support the Wahid government at present . 
ENGLISH In plain terms -- and I think the European Commission and the Council are taking a sensible stance here - this support entails tracking down specific resources in order to support that government in its attempt to pacify and to actively intervene . 
ENGLISH This is our urgent request . 
ENGLISH We are also very critical of the situation in that region and very concerned for the Moluccan community in the Netherlands . We particularly empathise with the emotional turmoil and anxiety they are experiencing . 
ENGLISH We are in favour of granting Wahid support , because the moment we involve international observers or commit other forms of aid without Wahid' - s knowledge , we will be intervening and undermining his actions . 
ENGLISH In this sense , I clearly endorse the PPE' - s stance and would strongly urge this House to show great concern , and great willingness to provide support , but via Wahid , and also prescribe requirements to be met , again via him , because we need to play the game through him for the time being . 
ENGLISH Madam President , I think that Mrs Maij - Weggen is quite right to call the situation catastrophic . 
ENGLISH It is , in fact , a complex situation , in which many people have died . The question that arises is why communities that had been co - existing relatively peacefully should suddenly shift to this level of tension and threats . 
ENGLISH I think that certain forces are at work behind these actions , and there is a significant similarity between a certain type of behaviour that we are now seeing in the Moluccas and the events we recently witnessed in East Timor . 
ENGLISH From this point of view , I think that the references in the compromise motion for a resolution , which deserves our total support , are most timely . 
ENGLISH Death penalty in the United States 
ENGLISH Madam President , in our resolution on the death penalty which we agreed with the other groups , we appealed to the Governor of Virginia to spare the life of a person sentenced to death . 
ENGLISH The name of the Governor of Virginia has been missed off the list of recipients of the resolution . 
ENGLISH Please would you ensure that the Governor of Virginia 's name is inserted at the end of the text of our resolution , for our appeal is addressed precisely to him . 
ENGLISH Yes , Mr Manisco , you are absolutely right . 
ENGLISH In the text of the resolution , reference was made to this State . 
ENGLISH Technically speaking , it would therefore be appropriate to communicate it to the Governor of Virginia and it will therefore be put to the vote with this amendment . 
ENGLISH Madam President , we can all put our signatures to what is written in the resolution . 
ENGLISH We know that the United Nations' - Commission for Human Rights requested a moratorium in April last year . 
ENGLISH This year , this demand was repeated . 
ENGLISH They also requested all the States which still had the death penalty progressively to reduce the number of crimes for which the death penalty is imposed . 
ENGLISH We have many shocking figures relating to the number of people that are still awaiting the death penalty in the United States . 
ENGLISH According to the information that I have , this involves 3 670 - people . 
ENGLISH In the resolution , we point to the prevailing legal uncertainty in the present cases . 
ENGLISH Therefore , a moratorium is necessary in all cases , even those that are not mentioned in the resolution . 
ENGLISH We are also given hope by the fact that the issue of the death penalty in the United States has been given a completely new political importance . 
ENGLISH I also value the work that the human rights organisations have done to bring this issue to the fore . 
ENGLISH Mr President , Commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , Mrs Thors has already said this , there is unanimity in this House in support of this resolution . 
ENGLISH We must also question the actions of the European Union and its ability to pursue this initiative in favour of the international moratorium alongside the United Nations and the international community . 
ENGLISH We know the difficulties encountered by our institutions , mainly due to their odd nature , in particular with regard to foreign policy , an area under the responsibility of a Commissioner , a High Representative and fifteen Foreign Ministers . 
ENGLISH To avoid repeating last year' - s failure at the United Nations , we must urgently coordinate the actions of the European Union . 
ENGLISH To this end , I have presented an amendment asking that this policy within the United Nations in favour of the establishment of a universal moratorium be coordinated by the High Representative for Common Foreign and Security Policy . 
ENGLISH Mr President , this House is appealing to the Governor of Virginia to spare the life of a man , Derek Rocco Barnabei , sentenced to death , who is in all probability innocent . 
ENGLISH As we debate our resolution , in a death cell in the same State , they are sterilising the needles which will be used to administer the lethal injection which , in a few hours' time , will kill Michael Clagget , probably guilty of multiple murders committed many years ago . 
ENGLISH We have adopted countless resolutions during these last two parliamentary terms in a vain attempt to put an end to the death penalty in the United States and elsewhere . 
ENGLISH I do not know whether George W. Bush boasts of this record , but I do know -- because he told me in a letter he sent me dated 22 March -- that he is confident that he will be able to fulfil the highest obligations of a fair and errorless justice . 
ENGLISH The resolution before Parliament notes the fresh debate which is currently in progress in the United States , not on the abolition of the death penalty at all but on a moratorium intended to ensure a more reliable but no less merciless system . 
ENGLISH We may well have done the right thing , but I fear , as the American Herald Tribune said recently , that these endeavours of ours are destined to remain unheeded , a dead letter , and so , the time may well have come -- not for boycotts and sanctions , which are abhorrent to us -- but , for example , to promote European tourism only in the dozen States of America which do not inflict the death penalty . 
ENGLISH There would be a serious , extremely serious risk of retaliation from the United States : if we stay away from Donald Duck or Disneyworld in Florida the Americans would boycott the Mona Lisa in the Louvre . 
ENGLISH The time has come for us to take this risk in a last attempt to put an end to this barbaric practice which is such an insult to the human family . 
ENGLISH Mr President , the United States , we recall , is the country of the world which has had , for the longest time , an entrenched and justiciable bill of rights . 
ENGLISH It is therefore a horrible irony that the United States is one of the few countries in the developed world which still retains and practises the use of the death penalty . 
ENGLISH We appeal for his life today , but he is also a symbol of a practice which we find appalling and which we know to be going on in many parts of the United States . 
ENGLISH I am myself a great lover of the United States and many aspects of its way of life . 
ENGLISH I have been a frequent visitor to the law school of the University of Texas and to other law schools in the United States . 
ENGLISH I admire them very much , but I am really sad to see that state and its governor practising this so frequently and boasting of it in presidential campaigns . 
ENGLISH Mr President , the case of Derek Rocco Barnabei makes our resolution all the more urgent . 
ENGLISH In this specific case , there are reasons to suspect that there has been a miscarriage of justice . 
ENGLISH Clearly , where the death penalty is involved a miscarriage of justice is particularly serious ; let us not forget that miscarriages of justice in similar cases have subsequently been acknowledged , and it was no coincidence that the defendants in these cases were people who could not afford an expensive attorney . 
ENGLISH Therefore , we call for a repeal of this sentence and , in consideration of the petition signed by an extremely large number of Members over the last few days , we call upon the Presidency of Parliament to write to the authorities responsible immediately , insisting that they attend to the matter and , of course , insisting too that the death penalty is abolished in the United States , so admirable a country in so many other respects . 
ENGLISH And it is precisely these merits that make the continuation of this barbaric ritual so very shocking . 
ENGLISH Hooliganism 
ENGLISH Mr President , football is a festival . 
ENGLISH This is the motto under which Belgium and the Netherlands staged Euro 2000 over the past three weeks . 
ENGLISH In sporting terms , it was indeed a festival , except perhaps for our Italian friends . 
ENGLISH However , the festival was , once again , overshadowed by the behaviour of some alleged supporters . 
ENGLISH Serious riots broke out , especially before and after the Germany - England match . 
ENGLISH In total , 173 people ended up in hospital , 1400 arrests were made and 500 English supporters were repatriated by C 130 aircraft . 
ENGLISH Some people , including certain delegates in this House , are trying to trivialise the issue . 
ENGLISH Surely a country cannot take on the appearance of a police state for days on end because of a football championship ? 
ENGLISH It is high time the national governments took preventive measures in order to keep the hooligan hard - core at home . 
ENGLISH Germany set a good example in this respect . 
ENGLISH In concrete terms , so - called football supporters who have been arrested previously on account of involvement in football violence should be issued with a travel ban . 
ENGLISH It is therefore not primarily a case of more or less border control , but of efficient and coherent police cooperation . 
ENGLISH Let us draw the right conclusions from the events in Brussels and Charleroi . 
ENGLISH There has never been a greater need for hard measures and sound cooperation in order to harness this mindless violence . 
ENGLISH Hooliganism has transcended all borders , both literally and figuratively speaking . 
ENGLISH Mr President , too many tragedies have taken place , both inside and outside stadiums : incidents which are evidence of the imbalance and social unease of individuals , a culture where strength is what matters and violence prevails over reason . 
ENGLISH The resolution reiterates Parliament 's concern over the spread of hooliganism , and calls for preventive measures which I support . 
ENGLISH However , it is crucial that in this , of all situations , the difficulty of their task does not make the forces of the law lose their heads as well . 
ENGLISH At this point , I would like to protest at the behaviour of the Dutch police towards some Italian journalists who were filming the humiliating treatment of a group of disabled people who were being carried up the steps because there were not enough free seats for them . 
ENGLISH The journalists were prevented from doing their job and were beaten up , thrown to the ground and arrested . 
ENGLISH The film shown this morning here in Parliament contained pictures which leave no doubt as to the express intention of the police to suppress the freedom of the press . 
ENGLISH Different interpretations have been given of the event , and so we call upon the Dutch authorities to hold an inquiry in order to find out who was responsible , and we demand that this sort of incident is never repeated . 
ENGLISH Mr President , this debate is not entitled hooligans but Euro 2000, and this is great . 
ENGLISH The whole of Europe managed to stage a huge festival of football where the Belgian and Dutch authorities were the first to back this idea and which attracted huge numbers of football supporters from Europe . 
ENGLISH In practice , the festival turned out to be a huge success all - round , and this resolution rightly mentions that we should congratulate the Dutch and Belgian authorities on this achievement . 
ENGLISH There is also a small group of hooligans which has been operating for a while and which clearly aims to spoil this kind of festival . 
ENGLISH They managed to do this to a very limited extent . 
ENGLISH And they still manage to do this at some level . This costs a great deal of money , is a real nuisance and we therefore endorse this resolution . 
ENGLISH We also back the initiative from the Belgian and Dutch Home Affairs Ministers , which attempts to introduce travel bans for this kind of hooligan when high - risk events are due to take place . 
ENGLISH What is clear is that MEPs have received information from a variety of sources about the incident at De Kuip Stadium in Rotterdam and as a result , some have the impression that the situation got out of hand in a big way and that the incident was terrible , and they formed their opinions based on this information . 
ENGLISH Others , who gained their information from other sources , have the impression that the situation got out hand there but not to such a reprehensible extent . 
ENGLISH As a Dutchman , I would have liked to see the Netherlands become the European champions , of course , and I congratulate the French warmly on their victory . What I would say though is that if some delegates here got the impression , based on footage they saw , that certain incidents got out of hand , then I do not think -- and the same goes for the Netherlands -- that we should ( a ) tar the whole of Euro 2000 with the same brush , and ( b ) act as if the whole festival was ruined as a result . 
ENGLISH What we should do is recognise that something is wrong and ask for all the facts to be made known . 
ENGLISH I am therefore very much in favour of the Dutch authorities launching a thorough inquiry . 
ENGLISH Fortunately , Prime Minister Kok has assented to this and I would like to pass my final verdict on the basis of these facts . 
ENGLISH I should right away like to express my sympathy and concern for our Italian fellow MEPs at this stage . 
ENGLISH This goes without saying , but I do want to wait until I have all these facts at my fingertips before I pass judgement . 
ENGLISH Mr President , I will start by declaring an interest , because I have been a Class 1 football referee for 18 years now and I am attached to the English FA , and also by congratulating both France for winning the Euro 2000 championship in such a fantastic way , and alas , begrudgingly Germany for winning the World Cup bid for 2006 . 
ENGLISH I also want to make sure that we actually condemn hooligans in a very strong way in this House ; all hooligans whatever country they come from and whatever their background . 
ENGLISH It was a great shame in fact that the Belgian police overreacted in such a way by clearing bars of decent ordinary football - loving supporters , taking them with the dross that are the football hooligans . 
ENGLISH The question is : what message was sent out by the football authorities going back a number of months before the Euro 2000 championship ? 
ENGLISH We had a problem with two Leeds fans being murdered in a UEFA Cup game in Istanbul against Galatasaray , yet no action was taken against Galatasaray -- they were not thrown out of the UEFA Cup . 
ENGLISH Then we have the inaction by the British government , which chose not to impose any extra sanctions on stopping people from travelling , even though they knew they might cause trouble . 
ENGLISH So all these factors actually led to a number of people thinking : " Well this Euro 2000 championship is a soft touch . 
ENGLISH We should be allowed to go there , and we are going to go and have a good fight " , instead of watching the wonderful festival of football that it should have been . 
ENGLISH This Parliament and others on the outside should step back , because we have a breathing space now where we can take a reasoned view of what actions we should realistically take against football hooligans , and compare that with the rights of people to freely move about our continent . 
ENGLISH Mr President , I would like to point out that this resolution is entitled 'Euro 2000' , not 'Hooliganism' as it might seem . 
ENGLISH And I would add that we have a great responsibility as politicians and Members of Parliament towards the sporting world , in particular the world of football : the responsibility never to lose sight of the fact that it is a merely a game . 
ENGLISH We must therefore be concerned when the game is unduly weighed down by either economic interests or excessively emotive behaviour , neither of which must be encouraged in any way by the political world . 
ENGLISH In my opinion , we must continually remind our young people , including those who are the most fervent fans , those who are most emotionally involved in these events , that football is a game . 
ENGLISH I would argue that whenever there is a good match , such as those we have seen during Euro 2000, we have all contributed to its success . 
ENGLISH I also understand why these are particularly difficult events for the authorities to organise -- I remember the Heysel stadium tragedy -- and we can therefore congratulate ourselves on the organisation of Euro 2000 . 
ENGLISH However , against this positive backcloth let us consider the Rotterdam incident , for it took place in the extremely serious context of the provision of access to these events for disabled people . This should be carried out calmly and the disabled people made to feel welcome . 
ENGLISH Moreover , we were astonished by the brutality of the police in beating up journalists who were drawing attention to an extremely serious issue regarding the provision of access and assistance for disabled people . 
ENGLISH I would stress that we are confident that the authorities had in no way encouraged such incidents and that it was the result of seriously inappropriate behaviour on the part of the forces of the law . 
ENGLISH I therefore urge all the Members not to turn this into a national issue , for I consider that the content of the joint resolution is acceptable to all and can be adopted unanimously . 
ENGLISH Thank you , ladies and gentlemen . 
ENGLISH Since several of you have made repeated references to the title of the item on the agenda , so that you do not waste any more time on an error , I will waste some time with a clarification . 
ENGLISH The item on the agenda as approved by the House is - 'Hooligans' - . 
ENGLISH The title of the resolution may be the one which you have mentioned , of course , but on the agenda it appears as - 'Hooligans' - , within the section on human rights . 
ENGLISH Mr President , the joint resolution which we are about to put to the vote is , in my opinion , particularly well - balanced . 
ENGLISH Notably , the Rotterdam incident does not alter our view of the human rights record or the quality of democracy in Holland , which I consider to be among the most liberal countries in the world , although it was treated as serious , both in terms of the shameful treatment of the disabled people and because of the violence against the journalists who were merely doing their duty . 
ENGLISH Their nationality is of little importance . 
ENGLISH The European Union , through its highest expression of democracy , the European Parliament , condemns the occurrence of such an incident within its borders . 
ENGLISH This is the best approach to take on the matter . 
ENGLISH On the other hand , particularly in its urgent resolutions , the European Union does not hold back in expressing stringent positions on the conduct of other countries or events taking place in other parts of the world where human rights are violated . 
ENGLISH Would it not lose all credibility if it did not also criticise similar events within its borders ? 
ENGLISH Mr President , I can be brief about the championship itself : France is a fine European champion and the fear that the situation was going to get out of hand on a massive scale has at any rate been exaggerated despite a number of very regrettable incidents referred to by Mr Van Hecke , involving mainly English supporters 
ENGLISH After the final -- and the entire debate seems to focus on this part of the championship now , but I suppose , unfortunately , this is how it is -- a number of incidents occurred which , in my view , are just not on , and I am mainly referring to the rough treatment of the journalists , which at times was too rough . 
ENGLISH But there is still a great deal of uncertainty as to what happened before this and what caused it . 
ENGLISH What exactly happened to the disabled Italian supporters ? 
ENGLISH Were people informed that so many would turn up ? 
ENGLISH I am saying this as a regular visitor to De Kuip Stadium and I know that there is space for disabled supporters at De Kuip , but not for an unlimited number . 
ENGLISH Did these handicapped supporters not want to be filmed or were they not allowed to be filmed ? 
ENGLISH These kinds of questions need to be investigated and the Dutch Government has assented to such an investigation . 
ENGLISH Accordingly , my group will vote against any part of the resolution in which such a judgement has been passed . 
ENGLISH It is absolutely not worth it . 
ENGLISH In this way , serious matters which need to be investigated would be called into question . 
ENGLISH My view is : something happened , which is now being investigated , but I would urge you to keep a sense of perspective . 
ENGLISH , Mr President , thank you for reminding us that in fact the title of the item on the agenda that we are examining is hooliganism . 
ENGLISH Two months ago , I addressed Parliament regarding the need to take action against the crimes that hooligans would undoubtedly commit during Euro 2000 . 
ENGLISH The measures taken by the Belgian authorities served to limit the clearly racist , xenophobic and homophobic violence of the hooligans . 
ENGLISH It is therefore becoming imperative to consider measures to deal with the instigators of such violent crimes , who are often manipulated by extremist right - wing movements . 
ENGLISH It is still too easy for hooligans to move around with complete impunity within the countries of the European Union . 
ENGLISH Instant sanctions must be taken in the countries where they commit crimes . 
ENGLISH Those who are identified and on file as having committed assault must be banned from entering stadiums during major sporting events . 
ENGLISH Supporters' - clubs and football clubs must be made to take greater responsibility , as it must be said that they sometimes fan the flames . 
ENGLISH The campaign by the French Minister for Youth Affairs and Sport , Mrs Marie - Georges Buffet made them take greater responsibility and this action has borne fruit . 
ENGLISH I therefore believe that Parliament can provide a real impetus for the Member States and the UEFA to implement such measures immediately , as the red card , Mr President , must admittedly be applied on the pitch , but must also be applied with regard to hooligans , both in and outside the stadium . 
ENGLISH Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , needless to say , all forms of violence should be denounced , including the outrageous expressions of hooliganism during Euro 2000 . 
ENGLISH Because of this , we have been unable to emphasise sufficiently how extraordinarily well - organised Euro 2000 was , indeed the standard of organisation will turn Euro 2000 into an unforgettable experience for millions of people . 
ENGLISH As representative of one of the host nations , I would like to congratulate everyone who was involved on the organisational side and in the enforcement of law and order . 
ENGLISH The success of Euro 2000 has shown that small nations are capable of great things and this should not be overshadowed by the wanton behaviour of a minority . 
ENGLISH Not only was Euro 2000 a superb festival of football , it was also a festival of solidarity among the citizens of the European Union , whom it brought closer together . 
ENGLISH Mr President , on Monday , the Liberal Group voted against including this item on the agenda and if I now consider the resolution , I believe we were right to do so . 
ENGLISH Extending congratulations in a resolution is very civilised , of course , but hardly the task of this Parliament . 
ENGLISH The issue of hooligans cannot be termed urgent because this phenomenon has been around for years . I believe that , nevertheless , Parliament should look into this , but not as a matter of urgency . 
ENGLISH I would now like to say a few words on the events which unfolded in Rotterdam . 
ENGLISH Naturally , an investigation is necessary because the accusations are very serious . 
ENGLISH The Dutch Public Prosecutor is involved in this matter and so it is completely premature on the part of this Parliament to pass a verdict on the incident at this stage . 
ENGLISH In my opinion , this is a long way off , and it is inappropriate to pass political judgement at a time when a Public Prosecutor is looking into a matter . 
ENGLISH Consequently , I believe that the amendments pertaining to this matter should be rejected . 
ENGLISH We could , of course , come back to them once it has become clear that human rights were violated , but I do think that passing such a verdict would be overstepping the mark at this stage . 
ENGLISH Mr President , first of all , I would like to turn to Mr Heaton - Harris who , about a month ago now , thought that the sporting event at Charleroi would have to be cancelled : there would , he claimed , be terrible trouble . 
ENGLISH I would say to him , very sportingly , as he was once a referee , that I was right to blow the whistle on him then . 
ENGLISH Secondly , I believe that we should look at this matter in depth and that if , as the resolution indicates , we could achieve greater cooperation between the various Member States during an event such as Euro 2000, progress would be made . 
ENGLISH If , in future , we could manage to prevent repeat offenders from attending other events , and if , finally , as Mr Fodé Sylla indicated earlier , we were able to monitor a subject such as that in order to develop new teaching on behaviour in stadiums , then sport , and not political concern , would win through . 
ENGLISH I will end , Mr President , by hoping that the content and pace of my speech have been as you requested , that is , on a human scale . 
ENGLISH Iraq 
ENGLISH Mr President , the United Nations has been emasculated by two members of the Security Council on the issue of sanctions on Iraq . 
ENGLISH Kofi Annan is a good and honourable man . 
ENGLISH However , he should resign in the knowledge that the world is utterly opposed to the disproportionate severity of these sanctions . 
ENGLISH The EU must speak out against sanctions which amount to virtual genocide . 
ENGLISH He is still there ten years later . 
ENGLISH In fact , the real purpose of the sanctions is to control oil and provide a training ground for US and British pilots so they can ensure the survival of the military - industrial complexes in both the US and Britain . 
ENGLISH On my recent visit to Iraq I saw children die of respiratory infections , diarrhoea , leukaemia , gastro - enteritis and malnutrition . 
ENGLISH We must remember that this is a country that has the second largest oil reserve in the world . 
ENGLISH Operating theatres have raw sewage dripping in , and out - of - date equipment . 
ENGLISH We are witnessing the slow strangulation of a wonderful nation and a wonderful people . 
ENGLISH I am a friend of Islam and I think we should stop , in this European Union and the European Parliament , demonising the Arabs and demonising Islam . 
ENGLISH Mr President , we had originally submitted a text on the same subject and with the same purport , but this text gives a far more balanced view than the text of the so - called joint resolution . 
ENGLISH I would have far preferred discussing a text which strikes more of a balance . 
ENGLISH Why is it then that this text has not been published ? We have withdrawn our signatures after all . 
ENGLISH Mrs Maes , perhaps we do not understand each other very well , but if you have withdrawn your signature from the joint resolution , or have not signed it , the text remains alive and will be put to the vote in accordance with the rules in force . 
ENGLISH Is this also being distributed ? 
ENGLISH Is it available , because I have noticed that many MEPs have not seen this text ? 
ENGLISH Yes , of course . 
ENGLISH We were not aware that there was the least problem with distribution , but if you say so , we will check and we will have the text distributed . 
ENGLISH Mr President , Iraq was at war with Iran from 1980 to 1989 . 
ENGLISH During this time the USA and EU supported Iraq since we perceived Iran as the real threat to the Middle East . 
ENGLISH This was wrong and unacceptable . 
ENGLISH The UN responded by passing Resolution 661 to impose sanctions on Iraq . 
ENGLISH The UN action was justified . 
ENGLISH The USA and Britain imposed a no - fly zone in April 1991 . 
ENGLISH In 1994, Iraq recognised the territorial integrity of Kuwait . 
ENGLISH From 1991 to 1997, UN inspectors -- UNSCOM -- systematically and comprehensively inspected , destroyed and verified Iraq 's capacity to produce weapons of mass destruction . 
ENGLISH The UN representative reported to the UN in 1997 that UNSCOM 's work had covered virtually everything about Iraq . 
ENGLISH The oil for food programme started in 1996 has been excessively bureaucratic and incompetent , resulting in long delays in procuring essential medicines and food supplies . 
ENGLISH Of the USD 28 billion worth of oil revenue over three years , only USD 7 billion has been utilised for imports and USD 12 billion remains frozen in a bank in New York . 
ENGLISH If the sanctions were intended to destroy Iraq 's military capacity , then they have done the job . 
ENGLISH If the sanctions were intended to dislodge Saddam Hussein , this has not still been achieved after ten years . 
ENGLISH However , ten years of sanctions have caused enormous suffering and hardship for the 22 million people of Iraq . 
ENGLISH The intellectual embargo has deprived doctors , teachers and other professionals of the advances in science and technology . 
ENGLISH I believe the European Union must reassess its position in helping those suffering acute hardship . 
ENGLISH There are six EU States -- Germany , France , Italy , Spain , Portugal and Greece -- represented diplomatically in Iraq today . 
ENGLISH These diplomats share the view of the UN Office in Iraq , WHO , Red Cross , and other NGOs that the EU can , through its diplomacy , achieve a breakthrough . 
ENGLISH Our parliamentarians and Commission officials should go on fact - finding missions to Iraq to meet members of the Iraqi Parliament , EU diplomats , international agencies and NGOs . 
ENGLISH Such dialogue will help to establish the facts as they are today and help identify how this deadlock can be broken so that sanctions can be lifted for non - military suppliers . 
ENGLISH I hope that this House will vote in favour of this resolution . 
ENGLISH Mr President , I am convinced that any type of embargo apart from an arms embargo is a violation of human rights and ineffective in combating authoritarian regimes . 
ENGLISH My visit to Iraq made me even more intolerant of the fact that , in the name of the defence of democracy and the rights of the Iraqi people , oppressed by Saddam Hussein , we are killing a people and destroying a country . 
ENGLISH This is intellectual genocide . 
ENGLISH We have seen the victims in the hospitals : children with their mothers who look at you with staring eyes and haunt your sleep ; doctors who watch the agony , powerless to do anything . 
ENGLISH There are no airlines offering flights to Baghdad , although there are no UN resolutions banning such flights either , because the USA and the United Kingdom have declared a no - fly zone . 
ENGLISH We must trust the Iraqi people to bring about democracy in Iraq ! 
ENGLISH One young girl from the Iraqi opposition , Rabye , said to me , while the bombs were falling on her village , 'You are even destroying our dream of building our own democracy ourselves' . 
ENGLISH Mr President , if anyone needs any kind of proof that there is something seriously wrong with the continuing sanctions against Iraq , we just have to look at the number of resignations of high - profile people within the United Nations . 
ENGLISH We can also note the words of Mary Robinson who has strongly condemned what is going on in relation to the sanctions . 
ENGLISH What is happening is that victims , innocent people , women and children , people without any power , without any kind of control whatsoever , are being persecuted . 
ENGLISH There is a war against the Iraqi people on which little concern has been focused , and I am glad that some people from Parliament have actually visited Iraq to see for themselves . 
ENGLISH It is extremely important . 
ENGLISH The illegal bombing by the US and Britain , which is not covered by any UN Security Council resolution , has no mandate whatsoever and is absolutely outrageous : it should not be allowed to continue . 
ENGLISH How we can allow illegal bombing like this to continue is just beyond credibility . 
ENGLISH The infrastructure in Iraq has been completely decimated . 
ENGLISH Again , the victims here are innocent people who have no power whatsoever . 
ENGLISH I also have to congratulate here some organisations in our communities who are doing something or are trying to raise awareness , and here I would mention those voices in the wilderness who are the sanction breakers -- I think they are playing a major role and I would like to voice my support here for them . 
ENGLISH We also have to look at the fact that in any kind of future measures against Iraq we should focus on the enhancement of human rights and democracy , and we should also look at the protection of the Kurds and in the north and the Shi'ites in the south in terms of guaranteeing them some sort of autonomy . 
ENGLISH We cannot lose sight of them either . 
ENGLISH Mr President , on 15 April this year , following a full debate with the Council and the Commission , we adopted a resolution that was endorsed by an overwhelming majority of this House . 
ENGLISH We called for the embargo on food and medicines to be lifted , because it hits the Iraqi people and not Saddam Hussein . 
ENGLISH We called for an immediate stop to the bombing the USA and the United Kingdom is engaged on without a mandate from the UN Security Council , because again this hits and punishes not the culprits but the victims in Iraq . 
ENGLISH At the beginning of that resolution we of course confirmed and underlined the Iraqi Government' - s obligation to accept and encourage the United Nations' - controls with a view to the destruction of ABC weapons and to trace the disappeared Kuwaiti citizens . 
ENGLISH With today' - s debate and this new resolution we are seeking to achieve three further objectives . 
ENGLISH First , we want to address not just the Council and the Commission but also the United Nations Security Council . 
ENGLISH Secondly , we propose that our Parliament should take the initiative in sending a fact - finding mission on the ground . 
ENGLISH Thirdly , we reiterate the need for the United Nations , the World Health Organisation and the Red Cross to ensure that the most deprived and vulnerable people in Iraq can benefit from the oil for food programme . 
ENGLISH Mr President , like Mr Andrews I speak this afternoon as one who regards himself as a friend of the Arab and Islamic world . 
ENGLISH This resolution can only be supported if recital A and paragraph 1 are regarded as being at its absolute core . 
ENGLISH We are saying that any relaxation of sanctions must depend upon Iraq respecting United Nations resolutions . 
ENGLISH In particular we must ask Iraq to cooperate with the International Committee of the Red Cross on tracing the 604 Kuwaiti citizens who disappeared as a result of the illegal Iraqi occupation of Kuwait . 
ENGLISH Mr President , one minute is a very short time for such a serious topic . 
ENGLISH I say serious , because we are talking about nothing less than the survival of a nation , and what must be called an international attack on immigrants , as it was once termed by Mr Chevènement , a French Defence Minister , against a nation which was trying to escape the new world order . 
ENGLISH This attack does not bode well for the future . 
ENGLISH This new world order , an expression coined by Mr Bush to conceal the interests of the multinationals and in this case the large American oil companies , is becoming increasingly intolerable for us . 
ENGLISH In this respect , the silence of humanitarian organisations in the face of the situation of the Iraqis who are suffering and over a million of whom have already died by our doing is astonishing . 
ENGLISH What a contrast and what hypocrisy between so - called humanitarianism and this holocaust that we are collectively carrying out due to simple cowardice in the face of American power , that great empire that this House in particular and Europe in general are incapable of opposing on any subject , as yesterday' - s vote on Echelon showed once again . 
ENGLISH The most serious thing , and I will end here , as there is undoubtedly far too much to be said here , is that for once , a Southern country was managing to develop , and the Northern countries , lined up behind Washington , have been unremitting in destroying it . 
ENGLISH This is immensely dangerous and worrying for the new century . 
ENGLISH Mr President , who could not feel sorry for the sorely tried population of Iraq ? 
ENGLISH The political ramifications of their intention are , however , a missed opportunity . 
ENGLISH What is more , they are a complete disaster for the liberated Kurdish part of ancient Mesopotamia . 
ENGLISH Allow me to be more specific . 
ENGLISH At present , the Iraqi Government is even allowed to export unlimited quantities of oil in order to procure humanitarian aid . 
ENGLISH In other words , what is stopping Saddam from alleviating the suffering of his people ? 
ENGLISH In fact , what will happen with the reserved 13 % for the Kurds in the unlikely event that the sanctions are lifted ? 
ENGLISH In my view , the use of the strange term - & # x2018 ; intellectual embargo & # x2019 ; - in recital D is bizarre . After all , the Iraqi intelligentsia has for decades strained under the intellectual embargo of Saddam' - s Baath party . 
ENGLISH The tyrant of the Tigris is only interested in one type of scientist : the developer of weapons of mass destruction . 
ENGLISH It is precisely this obsession of Saddam Hussein' - s which reveals the very risky naivety of Paragraph 3 of the joint resolution , because the lifting of the no - fly zone in the North of Iraq -- remember this is the international guarantee for the Kurds against their arch enemy Saddam -- will probably drive millions of Kurds to take flight once again . 
ENGLISH They know all too well what Saddam' - s pledges are really worth . 
ENGLISH Those tabling this resolution cannot possibly have it in mind to raise this awful spectre . 
ENGLISH Hence my explicit vote against . 
ENGLISH Mr President , let me say that I am shocked and horrified at the Commission reply on the issue of Iraq and the dismissive way in which they dealt with it . 
ENGLISH Just let me quote to the Commissioner , and to the Commission , the saying of Oscar Wilde that in our dealings with life , destiny never closes her book . 
ENGLISH Iraq deserves better than the Commission reply . 
ENGLISH I am absolutely horrified . 
ENGLISH I wish to express total dissatisfaction with the reply of the Commission . 
ENGLISH That is all . 
ENGLISH If you are going to be fair Mr President , let me say I express total satisfaction with the reply of the Commission . 
ENGLISH Perfect , that is one in favour and one against . 
ENGLISH Let us be brief and we will all move on . 
ENGLISH The debate is closed . 
ENGLISH The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m . 
ENGLISH Venezuela 
ENGLISH The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions : 
ENGLISH - - - - - B5 - 0615 / 2000 by Mr Di Pietro and Mr Sánchez García , on behalf of the ELDR Group , on Venezuela ; 
ENGLISH - - - - - B5 - 0627 / 2000 by Mr Salafranca Sánchez - Neyra and others , on behalf of the PPE - DE Group , on the reconstruction and rehabilitation of the areas affected by the catastrophic floods of December 1999 in Venezuela ; 
ENGLISH - - - - - B5 - 0634 / 2000 by Mr Wurtz and others , on behalf of the GUE / NGL Group , on Venezuela ; 
ENGLISH - - - - - B5 - 0642 / 2000 by Mrs Frassoni and Mr Knörr - Borràs , on behalf of the Verts / ALE Group , on the reconstruction of the areas affected by the floods in Venezuela in December 1999 ; 
ENGLISH - - - - - B5 - 0652 / 2000 by Mr Linkohr and Mr Menéndez del Valle , on behalf of the PSE Group , on the reconstruction of the areas affected by the floods in Venezuela in December 1999 . 
ENGLISH Mr President , today we have the opportunity to show our solidarity with the Venezuelan people , who last December experienced the consequences of a natural disaster which affected the coasts of the States of Vargas and Miranda and caused the deaths of 50 000 people . 
ENGLISH We therefore insist on the importance of approving this resolution which , in summary , is the logical consequence of the report of the special committee which travelled to Venezuela to get to know the reality on the ground of this natural disaster , and also reflects the coherence of the European Union' - s political commitments . 
ENGLISH I hope it will thereby be possible to finance , in a significant way , the programme for recovery of the areas affected and that it will be drawn up according to the models for this type of action . 
ENGLISH Mr President , as Mr Sánchez García has just reminded us , this resolution comes within the scope of the decision taken by the Conference of Presidents to send an ad hoc mission to Venezuela to assess the tragic consequences of December' - s floods in that country . 
ENGLISH This issue of Venezuela is serious and urgent . 
ENGLISH It is serious because the losses have not yet been sufficiently quantified -- but this tragedy has caused the deaths of more than 30 000 people . 
ENGLISH It is urgent , Mr President , because the European Parliament' - s mission took place last February and so far we have not been able to reach any final conclusions . 
ENGLISH I would like to take advantage of the presence of the Commission to ask the Commissioner how it has fulfilled the mandate which it received from this Parliament in the resolution adopted in January to assess the Community' - s response to the tragedy in Venezuela . 
ENGLISH I hope the Commission is capable of mobilising the necessary human resources to deal with the priorities indicated by this Parliament and I am sure that , if the Commission , as it has proposed in its preliminary draft budget for 2001, is going to be able to spend EUR 815 million in the Balkans , it will also be able to spend EUR 50 million in Venezuela . 
ENGLISH Mr President , this issue raises a problem which goes much further than the resolution on Venezuela . 
ENGLISH The problem involves the preservation of Parliament' - s capacity to respond to this type of situation . 
ENGLISH We have to make it very clear what we want . Do we want a real Parliament or do we want a cardboard cut - out Parliament ? 
ENGLISH Do we want a Parliament which fully assumes its duties or do we want a Parliament which simply endorses the priorities of other institutions ? 
ENGLISH Do we want a Parliament which does its duty or do we want a Parliament which simply signs cheques relating to the commitments of other institutions ? 
ENGLISH This is the debate surrounding the 2001 budget and it was the debate surrounding the 2000 budget . 
ENGLISH Mr President . I am convinced that , on the basis of this will , we will find in this budget , which consists of EUR 100 000 million this year and will involve a similar amount in subsequent years , a way to provide for the needs of the victims of this tragedy . 
ENGLISH Mr President , the three points which the Confederal Group of the European United Left -- Nordic Green Left wishes to make on the aid which the European Union can and must give to Venezuela as a result of the terrible flood disaster are : first , we should throw ourselves economically and technically into resolving the consequences suffered , and not reduce this aid , as the Commission intends , in order to fund another catastrophe , this time artificial , caused by us in the Balkans , in Kosovo and in Yugoslavia . 
ENGLISH Mr President , with regard to this resolution which speaks of solidarity with the Venezuelan people , I wish to express my total agreement with certain ideas . 
ENGLISH Firstly , I would ask that aid should reach the people and groups who are most in need of it . 
ENGLISH As a group we are clearly not opposed to this talk of SMBs and industries in general , but this eagerness to talk of these sectors seems excessive while we do not talk of other more needy groups . 
ENGLISH In particular -- as Mr Salafranca has pointed out -- the effectiveness of the aid measures must not suffer as a result of a lack of human resources . 
ENGLISH Secondly , we denounce the fact that something so essential to our group as incorporating the people affected into the drawing up and application of aid measures has not been accepted . This is necessary so that we do not find that things have been done which are not needed or not wanted . 
ENGLISH Finally , last but not least , we should reflect on our methods of production and our consumption of natural resources , because this lies behind these catastrophes , and we should not be regularly lamenting them . 
ENGLISH Mr President , I do not mean to give the impression that just because there is a particular sensitivity towards Latin America in this House , this should prevent us from also supporting the Commission' - s efforts regarding Central and Eastern Europe and the reconstruction of the Balkans . 
ENGLISH What does concern us at the moment is the abandonment of that area , which we have begun to notice over the last year , with the new Commission . 
ENGLISH It seems as if Latin America has suddenly disappeared from the map of the Commission' - s concerns . 
ENGLISH Of course , we have had good experiences with the European Union' - s contribution to Central America after the Mitch disaster , and we also saw a good initial reaction on the part of the Commission , which quickly allocated EUR 400 000 for emergency humanitarian aid to Venezuela when the disaster mentioned by previous speakers happened . 
ENGLISH At the moment we know that the Commission has the possibility , the means and the resources , to provide more aid . 
ENGLISH This type of disaster is unfortunately happening frequently and I have the impression that Latin America makes good use of Community aid . 
ENGLISH We have the instruments , the means , the good representation and also a European presence in those areas . 
ENGLISH We must remember for example that the European Union is the main foreign investor in Venezuela and that we have many cultural and social ties with those countries . 
ENGLISH Therefore , I hope that the Commission views this Parliament' - s requests with the best possible will so that , with the resources available , and with those which can be mobilised quickly , these requests can be granted and that a plan may be drawn up which is not limited to essential humanitarian aid , but which will help this country , which is making a great effort to rebuild itself for its own benefit , and probably also for our benefit , because the development of Latin America probably benefits the continent of Europe more than any other . 
ENGLISH Mr President , more than six months have now passed since the tragic floods in Venezuela . 
ENGLISH As a member of the European Parliament' - s ad hoc delegation , I was able to witness the terrible effects of what is considered to be the worst natural disaster that has ever occurred in Latin America . 
ENGLISH It was something that you had to see with your own eyes to believe . As striking as the photographs and television pictures in the media were , they merely hinted at the true scale of the disaster . 
ENGLISH We were also able to see the fantastic cooperation work that the NGOs are carrying out with people affected by the floods . 
ENGLISH This emergency humanitarian aid provided by the NGOs could not have occurred without the Commission' - s financial support and I therefore wish to praise all those who made it possible . 
ENGLISH However , the priority now must be to reconstruct the whole area affected and to stimulate economic recovery . 
ENGLISH I am aware that the task of reconstruction is colossal and that is perhaps why it has been so slow . 
ENGLISH Only a few roads have been cleared . 
ENGLISH Water and electricity supplies have been restored to some extent , but little more has been done , and the people who have been affected are despairing of the delay . 
ENGLISH Thousands of them are still dependent on food aid to survive . 
ENGLISH It is vital to replace the thousands of jobs destroyed by the floods . 
ENGLISH The Venezuelan Government will need a great deal of support if it is to succeed in this Herculean task . 
ENGLISH With regard to the task of reconstruction , which cannot be delayed , the Commission must offer the same level of support it provided in terms of emergency humanitarian aid for countries affected by Hurricane Mitch , or something similar . 
ENGLISH We therefore urge the Commission to provide a significant financial contribution over the next five years . 
ENGLISH Apart from a basic obligation to show solidarity , the historical ties that bind us to Venezuela and the stability of democracy in that country demand this . 
ENGLISH First , let me stress that quite contrary to what has been suggested here , the Commission is very much aware of the political importance of Latin America and that in fact it has recently taken a number of initiatives that underline its great political importance for Europe . 
ENGLISH Secondly , let me point out that in the case of the disaster in Venezuela , it is still worth considering cause and effect as well as responsibility . 
ENGLISH This aid is directed at two things . 
ENGLISH First , it is aimed at supporting reconstruction in the federal state of Vargas . 
ENGLISH It is already becoming a little easier to identify the needs here , which was not the case in the beginning . 
ENGLISH I can understand people being impatient because progress is so slow in some areas . 
ENGLISH But the Venezuelan Government has not proposed any projects to us . 
ENGLISH That is not meant as some kind of covert criticism . 
ENGLISH It is probably difficult for the Venezuelan Government to decide very quickly what the priorities should be . 
ENGLISH The results are now before us . 
ENGLISH In a few days' - time we will forward a communication to the Council on the measures to be supported and the funding to be provided . 
ENGLISH The second aspect -- which in my view is even more important than reconstruction aid -- is aid for the prevention of disasters . 
ENGLISH I believe the best way we can help the people in the long term is for us to concentrate on that . 
ENGLISH As for funding these two measures , that is a very difficult question , because it really is a problem for the Commission to be constantly confronted by the Council and Parliament with their wishes as to what it should do and where it should help ; but unfortunately no - one tells the Commission where it is to get the money from . 
ENGLISH We will find a way to finance these measures too and will make realistic proposals , incidentally also proposals that will take account of what the country itself can contribute in view of the sharp rise in its revenue from oil exports . 
ENGLISH Thank you very much , Commissioner . 
ENGLISH The joint debate is closed . 
ENGLISH The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m . 
ENGLISH European Monitoring Centre on Racism and Xenophobia 
ENGLISH The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions : 
ENGLISH - - - - - B5 ­ 0628 / 2000 by Mr Van Velzen , on behalf of the PPE / DE Group , on the controversy involving the European Monitoring Centre on Racism and Xenophobia ; 
ENGLISH - - - - - B5 ­ 0635 / 2000 by Mr Wurtz and others , on behalf of the GUE / NGL Group , on the resignation of Mr Pelinka , the Austrian representative on the Management Board of the European Monitoring Centre on Racism and Xenophobia ; 
ENGLISH - - - - - B5 ­ 0651 / 2000 by Mr Ford and others , on behalf of the PSE Group , on the resignation of Mr Pelinka , the Austrian representative on the Management Board of the European Monitoring Centre on Racism and Xenophobia ; 
ENGLISH Mr President , I agree with Mr Watson , the Chairman of the Committee on Citizens' - Freedoms and Rights , Justice and Home Affairs , who said in an interview that the urgency tabled by Mr Swoboda was the wrong course to choose and that he expected a rather more mature approach . 
ENGLISH I agree with him because in an explanatory statement , which he presented to the House , Mr Swoboda refers to conflicts between the government in Austria and the head of the Monitoring Centre on racism that date back quite some time . 
ENGLISH It was the time when Viktor Klima , an SPÖ member , was head of the Austrian Government and the government was SPÖ - dominated . 
ENGLISH It is a delicate matter when a Socialist from Austria does this , but by no means urgent . 
ENGLISH I endorse what Mr Watson said because here Mr Swoboda is also confirming to the present government that better relations are now being established with this Monitoring Centre . 
ENGLISH He should be pleased about that , as I and many others are . 
ENGLISH She specifically praises Austria' - s new policy towards foreigners and concedes to the government that there has , of course , not been a single xenophobic initiative , whereas there is much progress . 
ENGLISH She says , much progress , which was not possible under the red - green government ; and of course she also says that she is not being hindered in any way in her work . 
ENGLISH So what is the point of all this , Mr Swoboda ? 
ENGLISH As an Austrian Socialist you are obviously just trying to create a platform for polemics against Austrian . 
ENGLISH Mr President , I apologise to the translators if I spoke too quickly earlier on . 
ENGLISH I believe that what happened to Mr Pelinka , a renowned academic respected by the scientific community , is indicative of the true nature of the coalition in power in Austria . 
ENGLISH The far right , particularly when it is in power , is highly skilled in the art of pushing its opponents to the limit . 
ENGLISH What happened in the case of Mr Pelinka did not come about by chance or coincidence . 
ENGLISH It began with slander , he was persecuted by means of an unfair judgement , given by a court answering to the FPÖ , as the current Justice Minister of the FPÖ was Jörg Haider' - s lawyer when he sued Mr Pelinka for libel . 
ENGLISH We are also talking about a challenge issued by Haider to the Community as a whole . 
ENGLISH He reminds us that the Monitoring Centre is a creation of the European Union and that our President attended its inauguration three months ago . 
ENGLISH This is proof , for those who might still have doubts , that we must not negotiate with the far right , as every small victory it achieves strengthens it and makes it more commonplace . 
ENGLISH In response , we must give Mr Pelinka our total support . We must also help the Monitoring Centre on a human , political and financial level and finally , the Member States must continue to isolate the Austrian Government and , while supporting the Austrian people , isolate the coalition , which is unacceptable and unfair . 
ENGLISH Mr President , I had the honour of representing the European Parliament on the management committee of the European Monitoring Centre on Racism and Xenophobia and one of my colleagues there was Professor Doctor Anton Pelinka , representing the Austrian government . 
ENGLISH He played an important role in our deliberations , counselling moderation when others wanted to move too far and too fast , resisting cheap easy stereotyping of those we were investigating and imposing fact in preference to fantasy . 
ENGLISH All in all , he was a frustrating friend for those of us who wanted to move further and faster . 
ENGLISH I was therefore shocked to discover that state victimisation has been taking place against Professor Pelinka , first when Haider 's lawyer , acting as prosecutor and judge in the case of libel against Mr Haider , whom Professor Pelinka described as responsible for having made National Socialist positions and statements politically acceptable . 
ENGLISH Second , when he was constructively dismissed from his position as vice - president of the management committee of the Monitoring Centre through administrative harassment by sections of the current Austrian government . 
ENGLISH This resolution charges our Committee on Civil Liberties , as Mr Watson requested on Monday , to follow these developments closely . 
ENGLISH Perhaps we should not be surprised at what has happened . 
ENGLISH Pelinka has a disturbed relationship with Carinthia and his manner of permanently propagating falsehoods is unacceptable " . 
ENGLISH In March this year the Freedom Party said : " The newspapers were right once again . 
ENGLISH Now he ( Häider ) is threatening us " . 
ENGLISH But he is not threatening anybody . 
ENGLISH It is quite normal . 
ENGLISH When I feed a dog and it bites me then I will not feed it any more because otherwise it may bite me again . 
ENGLISH The wise men have a hard task in front of them over the coming six months . 
ENGLISH Mr President , I am deliberately refraining from entering into these cheap polemics , especially on the part of Mr Pirker , but want to keep the discussion at a certain level and stick to the facts . 
ENGLISH It is a fact that the Monitoring Centre on Racism and Xenophobia did indeed face difficulties in the first weeks , which were politically motivated , and that Mr Pirker in particular grossly insulted the head of the Centre , whom he has cited today as a witness to show how well things are going . 
ENGLISH It is a fact -- and I noted that in my first statement today ; the ladies and gentlemen who talk so big were not even there on Monday -- that things have , thank God , improved because Dr Winkler , the head of the Centre , has endeavoured , as has the new Austrian Government representative , to straighten it all out . 
ENGLISH But it is also a fact that the situation remains precarious ; and here I , like Dr Winkler , must also state that unfortunately not just the Austrian Government but also some other governments do not give the Monitoring Centre sufficient support . 
ENGLISH There certainly is an urgent need to call on all the governments -- as I propose -- to support the Monitoring Centre . 
ENGLISH But it is also a fact that , sad to say , the referendum announced for Austria , which representatives of the European and in particular the Austrian People' - s Party who are sitting here in this Chamber opposed only a few days ago , could dangerously aggravate the situation and mood in Austria again ; for it is reviving anti - European feelings that will certainly not do the work of this Monitoring Centre any good . 
ENGLISH And that is why I want to state my view here and call on the government , on those responsible in that government , not to hold that referendum , so as not to stir up new hatred , not to reawaken an anti - European mood again -- something a party like the Austrian People' - s Party , which was always pro - European , is in fact unlikely to want . 
ENGLISH I am firmly against that kind of anti - European mood and I place my hopes in this House . 
ENGLISH Mr President , I will tell you immediately that the ELDR group refused to sign the joint resolution for a very simple reason : we find it a little over - emotional , while not forceful enough , and does not offer the possibility of a more political and more balanced choice in the name of Parliament . 
ENGLISH We consider that the problem associated with the resignation of Mr Pelinka is important enough not to be tackled by a resolution that is emotional but does not actually say anything and is extremely watered - down . 
ENGLISH I do not understand their agreement on the text in its current form , in relation to the initial text that they themselves introduced . 
ENGLISH Consequently , we within the liberal group would like , and this is the wish of Mr Watson , his committee to be able to effectively take control of the matter and we would like to have very clear information on whether the Austrian Government has infringed Article 10 of the Treaty , that is , whether or not it has fulfilled its obligations with regard to the Monitoring Centre . 
ENGLISH If it has not fulfilled its obligations , it is up to Parliament to take the appropriate action with regard to the Commission and the Council . 
ENGLISH The main thing is to make it clear and today we are not clear . 
ENGLISH Mr President , my group also supports the proposal by the chairman of the Committee on Citizens' - Freedoms and Rights , Justice and Home Affairs to treat this whole affair carefully in that committee . 
ENGLISH Nonetheless , we will vote for this resolution because , unlike the earlier ones , it is an extremely moderate and responsible reaction to the statements by the head of the Monitoring Centre to the Committee on Home Affairs 
ENGLISH The EPP Group also took part in the discussions and decisions on the present resolution . 
ENGLISH Mr Pirker reads out some statements by the head of the Monitoring Centre but keeps silent about the terrible statements she made in committee , where Mr Pirker himself launched violent attacks on her , about the defamation of the Centre in the Austrian Parliament , about the systematic harassment , the lack of security provisions , the lack of support . 
ENGLISH I am sad to see the ÖVP members also giving us a sample here of the way they deal with government critics in their own country ; in fact attempting to present them as traitors to their country . 
ENGLISH If you listened to Mr Pirker' - s allegations that any criticism is criticism directed against Austria , you will see that this really is an appalling attempt to invent a conflict between the defence of human rights and patriotism . 
ENGLISH That is a disgraceful attitude ! 
ENGLISH Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , we are debating a motion for a resolution that is lacking in substance . 
ENGLISH Who has actually seen Mr Pelinka' - s letter of resignation ? 
ENGLISH Who knows the real circumstances of his resignation ? 
ENGLISH What is known in Austria about Mr Pelinka' - s resignation is the fact that various versions are being circulated by various people . 
ENGLISH What I know is the fact that legal proceedings are pending between Mr Pelinka and Mr Haider . Under no circumstances is it the business of politics or of any parliament to go so far as to criticise proceedings before an independent court that have not yet concluded . 
ENGLISH Every state governed by the rule of law provides for constitutional legal measures . 
ENGLISH Racism and xenophobia are a serious problem throughout the Union and one that must be taken seriously . 
ENGLISH It must be combated by every means available wherever it arises . 
ENGLISH What I expect of the Monitoring Centre is to take stock of the situation objectively and to look at it in comparative terms , so as to allow the policy - makers to react to it . 
ENGLISH What I do not expect of the Monitoring Centre is interference in day - to - day political matters and to exercise its mandate with an ideological bias . 
ENGLISH Because underlying the concept of racism and xenophobia there are people and their destinies , and they should not be used to put on some kind of political show . 
ENGLISH What I oppose is that this simplistic motion for a resolution is also tabled by those Austrian Members who pretend to support my home country . 
ENGLISH Mr President , the Commission is grateful for the valuable contribution Professor Pelinka has made as a member of the Management Board towards setting up the European Monitoring Centre on Racism and Xenophobia . 
ENGLISH Yet it is the Commission' - s common practice not to express an opinion on legal proceedings concerning individuals in the Member States . 
ENGLISH Moreover , the Commission cannot express any views on the reasons that led Professor Pelinka to resign from the Monitoring Centre' - s Management Board . 
ENGLISH The Commission services have already requested the Austrian authorities to appoint a new member of the Management Board . 
ENGLISH I do not believe I need give you an assurance here , since everyone knows that so far , the Commission has done all in its power to support the Monitoring Centre in Vienna and will continue to do so in future . 
ENGLISH We are firmly convinced that the Monitoring Centre plays an important role in combating racism , xenophobia and anti - Semitism . 
ENGLISH Let me specifically underline once again that the Commission attaches the greatest importance to ensuring that the Monitoring Centre will under all circumstances remain an independent body , enjoying the utmost autonomy in the performance of its tasks . 
ENGLISH That concludes the debate on topical and urgent subjects of major importance . 
ENGLISH We shall now proceed to the vote . 
ENGLISH Before the vote on child soldiers in Uganda : 
ENGLISH Mr President , we agreed a joint motion for a resolution , on which five groups collaborated . 
ENGLISH Once the document was finished , a sixth group joined in . 
ENGLISH I think it is contrary to our Rules of Procedure for a group to join in signing this motion without asking the others . 
ENGLISH My group regards that as a breach of our Rules of Procedure and I would ask you , Mr President , to examine this matter . 
ENGLISH Given that we collaborated on it , we will in fact vote for this resolution , yet I would ask you to ensure that the sixth group' - s signature is deleted from this motion for a resolution . 
ENGLISH Therefore the signature can stand . 
ENGLISH But I would suggest that this be looked into for the future . 
ENGLISH Before the vote on Venezuela : 
ENGLISH Mr President , the same applies here as to the one I just spoke about . 
ENGLISH I insist that you have this checked because it was just during this part - session that a member of our group wanted to add his signature to a motion for a resolution by other groups but first had to obtain written authorisation from the other groups . 
ENGLISH So I would ask you to investigate this matter and inform us of the results . 
ENGLISH For the rest , we support this resolution because we helped draft it . 
ENGLISH I fully understand what you are saying . 
ENGLISH We will look into the matter , but there does not appear to be a rule at the present time . 
ENGLISH Mr President , as you say , Mr Sakellariou , at the beginning of the part - session , presented us with four requests for amendments to the agenda which were all rejected , and now he wants to end his part - session with another request which , as you have already said , is completely inadmissible . 
ENGLISH We could carry on this way , but we would be wasting time . 
ENGLISH The President has already replied . 
ENGLISH It seems to me that he is absolutely right . 
ENGLISH I do not want any further debate . 
ENGLISH We will look into this matter . 
ENGLISH Vote 
ENGLISH Mr President , I simply wish to express our enormous sadness at the news we have just received concerning a horrendous accident on the Spanish roads , in which a lorry has collided with a school bus transporting Catalan school children , with an initial toll of 20 dead and 30 injured , some of whom are very seriously injured . 
ENGLISH Following the debates with the Council last night I was wondering whether this report is actually close enough to the original proposal for first reading procedure to be possible . 
ENGLISH There are certainly a number of amendments where we need further clarification . 
ENGLISH If we vote for them would this actually take the report further away from what this House is allowed to vote on ? 
ENGLISH This concerns Amendments Nos 4, 5, 6, 18, 21, 33, 36, 40, 42 and 46, some of which directly imply policy down to individual schools in Member States . 
ENGLISH I would like to hear whether this is actually a legal procedure for us to be voting on now . 
ENGLISH ll the amendments have been checked and approved by the services so we will vote on them now . 
ENGLISH ( Parliament adopted the legislative resolution ) 
ENGLISH eport ( A5 - 0180 / 2000 ) by Mr Mombaur on behalf of the Committee on Industry , External Trade , Research and Energy , on the Commission 's second report to the Council and the European Parliament on the state of liberalisation of the energy markets ( COM ( 1999 ) 198 -- COM ( 1999 ) 164 -- COM ( 1999 ) 612 -- COM ( 2000 ) 297 -- C5 - 0163 / 2000 -- 2000 / 2097 ( COS ) ) 
ENGLISH ( Parliament adopted the resolution ) 
ENGLISH < / P > eport ( A5 - 0170 / 2000 ) by Mr Karas , on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs , on the Commission communication on communications strategy in the last phases of the completion of EMU ( COM ( 2000 ) 57 -- C5 - 0104 / 2000 -- 2000 / 2019 ( COS ) ) 
ENGLISH ( Parliament adopted the resolution ) 
ENGLISH < / P > eport ( A5 - 0162 / 2000 ) by Mr Lambert , on behalf of the Committee on Petitions , on the deliberations of the Committee on Petitions during the parliamentary year 1999 - 2000 
ENGLISH ( Parliament adopted the resolution ) 
ENGLISH < / P > eport ( A5 - 0181 / 2000 ) by Mrs Thors , on behalf of the Committee on Petitions , on the activities of the European Ombudsman for 1999 ( C5 - 0303 / 2000 ) 
ENGLISH < / P > eport ( A5 - 0141 / 2000 ) by Mr Atkins , on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy , Transport and Tourism , on the Commission communication to the Council and the European Parliament -- The creation of the single European sky ( COM ( 1999 ) 614 -- C5 - 0085 / 2000 -- 2000 / 2053 ( COS ) ) 
ENGLISH ( Parliament adopted the resolution ) 
ENGLISH eport ( A5 - 0155 / 2000 ) by Mrs Damião , on behalf of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs , on the Commission report on the implementation of Council Directive 92 / 85 / EEC of 19 October 1992 on the introduction of measures to encourage improvements in the health and safety at work of pregnant workers and workers who have recently given birth or are breastfeeding ( COM ( 1999 ) 100 -- C5 - 0158 / 1999 -- 1999 / 2151 ( COS ) ) raftsman " Hughes procedure " : Emilia Franziska Müller , Committee on Women 's Rights and Equal Opportunities . 
ENGLISH ( Parliament adopted the resolution ) 
ENGLISH -- hat concludes the vote . 
ENGLISH Mr President , I simply wish to update the information I communicated to the House a few moments ago . 
ENGLISH The accident which has taken place in Spain is really very serious . 
ENGLISH The number of children who have died has risen to 27, and their families , to whom we wish to send our condolences , are from Cerdanyola del Vallés and from Viladecans , in Barcelona . 
ENGLISH I will make sure that the President is fully apprised of that and that is so done . 
ENGLISH Mr President , I do not know the extent of this tragedy , but if children are dead , I would perhaps suggest to the House that we observe a minute' - s silence . 
ENGLISH We need to have more information about the full extent of the tragedy . 
ENGLISH Mr President , I voted for the Redondo report which regulates European Union interventions in the event of fires and atmospheric pollution . 
ENGLISH This is certainly a positive measure . 
ENGLISH I voted for the motion but I would prefer it if , in future , in implementing the proposal , we took into consideration the fact that many pensioners and elderly people live near forests and they are often the only people left in remote and countryside areas . 
ENGLISH Fires are frequent in these areas and it would therefore be a good idea , or rather appropriate to use these people to help prevent fires . 
ENGLISH The amendments to the regulation on protecting forests against fires are particularly important for Portugal . 
ENGLISH In fact , we must pay considerably greater attention to the Mediterranean woodlands that have been affected by forest fires , and this requires considerable financial resources for reforestation and for the necessary fire prevention measures . 
ENGLISH For Portugal , where fires have destroyed large areas of forest , it is vital to increase appropriations in order to supplement national investment in building infrastructure , for example , and to help local authorities , private landowners' - associations or wasteland management bodies to buy fire prevention equipment . 
ENGLISH This is why the increase to EUR 77 - million in Community appropriations proposed by the rapporteur as opposed to the EUR 50 - million proposed by the Commission is so important . 
ENGLISH It is also important to create a Community information system on forest fires so that the situation at any given time is more widely known . This will enable us to fight more effectively against forest fires and their causes . 
ENGLISH I shall give my own personal view of the report on forests . 
ENGLISH I know the Committee on Agriculture tells us that we are having the wrong debate in defending an increase in the budget in the context of these reports . 
ENGLISH Personally , I consider that we have a political responsibility to send strong political signals to the Commission , the Council and the citizens . 
ENGLISH In December 1999, part of the European Union was hit by terrible storms which devastated a large proportion of the forests in southern and eastern France and created despair among the victims , in particular small - holders . 
ENGLISH I also know that we cannot rob Peter to pay Paul . 
ENGLISH By voting for the rapporteur' - s proposals , I wanted to contribute to the implementation of a true forestry policy in the European Union , as despite the vast CAP budget , forests , which are an integral part of agriculture , remain the poor relation . 
ENGLISH Unfortunately , the protection and attention which they are afforded is not commensurate with their importance . 
ENGLISH The major catastrophes which forests have suffered over recent years and the failure to react adequately in dealing with them are seriously jeopardising the ecological balance , as well as health , safety and numerous cultural and social values inextricably bound up with our forest heritage . 
ENGLISH Mountain and forest areas , especially in the Mediterranean , have been seriously damaged by deforestation , fire , erosion desertification , abandonment , abuse and inadequate reforestation , with the result that tens of thousands of acres of forest land have been lost . 
ENGLISH Allow me to bring to your attention the dramatic problem in Greece , which is at the top of the European league in terms of the numbers of acres burnt for every fire . 
ENGLISH Only 10 % of the surface area destroyed in Greece is reforested . 
ENGLISH The remaining 90 % is either abandoned or , more usually , is swallowed up and developed by economic interests ( such as the tourist businesses generally encouraged by the government of the day ) , which take advantage of the fires -- and / or are perhaps guilty of arson in starting them -- the unresolved problem of land ownership and the fact that there are no forest land register or records of government - owned forests in order to improve their profits . 
ENGLISH We have a wide variety of forests within the Community ( northern , temperate , Mediterranean and tropical ) and an equally wide variety of general and specific problems . 
ENGLISH Not only has the EU 's forest policy to date failed as a result of fragmented , one - off , inconsistent and incoherent action and the wholly inadequate funds provided ; the Commission has now proposed further cuts in the already minimal funds available to protect forests from fire and atmospheric pollution . 
ENGLISH The reason given for the proposed cuts is the reduced take - up of funds during the last period ! 
ENGLISH But the problems have not been solved . 
ENGLISH On the contrary , they have multiplied . 
ENGLISH Such a policy is not merely hypocritical . 
ENGLISH It is aiding and abetting fire . 
