ENGLISH Approval of the Minutes of the previous sitting 
ENGLISH The Minutes of yesterday 's sitting have been distributed . 
ENGLISH Are there any comments ? 
ENGLISH Mr President , on Monday I made a point of order about President Nicole Fontaine 's reported comments in the British press regarding her recent visit with Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II . 
ENGLISH A British Labour Member of this House , Mr Miller , repeated what were purported to be the Queen 's remarks , not once but three times , on Monday , on Tuesday and on Wednesday . 
ENGLISH He sought to drag the Queen into a political controversy and to use her name to score cheap political points . 
ENGLISH He knows perfectly well that ours is a non - political Head of State . 
ENGLISH He knows perfectly well that for nearly fifty years she has scrupulously avoided engaging in controversial political issues . 
ENGLISH He knows perfectly well that she cannot come to this House to set the record straight . 
ENGLISH His behaviour is a disgrace and a scandal . 
ENGLISH Mr President , I am proud to be British but today I am ashamed to share my nationality with that man . 
ENGLISH Has he no shame ? 
ENGLISH Has he no respect ? 
ENGLISH Has he no decency or honour at all ? 
ENGLISH Mr President , I wish to use this point of order to speak in my capacity as chairman of the delegation for relations with the countries of Central America and Mexico . 
ENGLISH As you will be aware , elections were held in Mexico last Sunday . 
ENGLISH Yesterday the delegation which I chair met and discussed a report drawn up by our fellow Members who had been to Mexico to act as observers at these elections on behalf of this Parliament . 
ENGLISH Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , I want to draw your attention to something really annoying in connection with the Minutes . 
ENGLISH The - & # x2018 ; Texts Adopted & # x2019 ; - also form part of the Minutes . 
ENGLISH I pointed out yesterday during the vote on the directive to combat money laundering the English translation of Article 6 ( 3 ) needs to be corrected to bring it in line with Amendment No 26, because the English translation is wrong . 
ENGLISH In the middle of the second paragraph of the English version there is only a reference to representation in legal proceedings , but no reference to legal consultants , as there is in the German text . 
ENGLISH That is a key point in this directive and since the Council working group is working on the basis of the English text it is quite crucial to correct this text . 
ENGLISH I had already complained about this in committee vis à vis the language services . 
ENGLISH At the time the committee decided not to table an amendment because the German text is the original version , as drafted by the rapporteur . 
ENGLISH I complained about this yesterday -- the situation was not remedied -- and today is the third time I am complaining about it ! 
ENGLISH I do think the services of this House should work more carefully on such key questions and it really is intolerable that despite my criticism yesterday the Minutes have got the text wrong again ! 
ENGLISH I would ask you get to the bottom of this matter , to sort out this most important aspect of the directive and to please correct this in the English translation ! 
ENGLISH Mr President , yesterday we received a communication on yellow paper from the vice - president , with some nuts attached to it . 
ENGLISH I think that is a very good idea and quite right . 
ENGLISH And I am quite happy to support it . 
ENGLISH But what rather puzzles me is that in it the vice - president quite explicitly stated that it is illegal to import these nuts into the European Union . 
ENGLISH So I must ask this vice - president to explain how these nuts came to be illegally imported , since it was he who delivered them to us ! 
ENGLISH That in itself is a contradiction so would he please clarify the matter . 
ENGLISH ( The Minutes were approved ) 
ENGLISH Welcome 
ENGLISH Committee on Petitions -- European Ombudsman 
ENGLISH The next item is the joint debate on the following reports , tabled on behalf of the Committee on Petitions : 
ENGLISH ( A5 - 0162 / 2000 ) by Mrs Lambert , on the deliberations of the Committee on Petitions during the parliamentary year 1999 - 2000 ; 
ENGLISH ( A5 - 0181 / 2000 ) by Mrs Thors , on the annual report on the activities of the European Ombudsman in 1999 . 
ENGLISH Mr President , I am glad to have the opportunity to address the European Parliament concerning the results of my work as European Ombudsman in the year 1999 . 
ENGLISH The Annual Report for 1999 covers the last year of the first mandate of the European Ombudsman . 
ENGLISH Last year the Ombudsman 's office received 1,577 new complaints compared to 1,372 in 1998, an increase of nearly 15 % . 
ENGLISH As well as becoming better known , the European Ombudsman is also attracting a higher proportion of serious complaints which require full investigation . 
ENGLISH You may be interested to know that the same trend has continued to the present year . 
ENGLISH During the first six months of this year , the number of new inquiries rose by 32 % over the same period in 1999 . 
ENGLISH Inquiries are the most resource - intensive aspect of the Ombudsman 's work . 
ENGLISH I do hope that the European Parliament will support the Ombudsman in seeking the resources needed to carry out the work effectively . 
ENGLISH During 1999, we continued to receive a quite high proportion of complaints , over 70 % , which lay outside the mandate of the European Ombudsman . 
ENGLISH We gladly accept complaints by e - mail and many of them contain well -- presented allegations of maladministration . 
ENGLISH During the campaign for the election of a European Ombudsman last year , some critical voices suggested that the Ombudsman 's mandate should be broadened to include complaints against Member States in cases where a question of European Union law is involved . 
ENGLISH I am not sure whether they understood that this would mean the European Ombudsman carrying out tasks currently belonging to the European Commission as the guardian of the Treaty , and to the European Parliament as the democratic forum to which citizens may address petitions . 
ENGLISH We study carefully all the complaints we receive , especially if they involve rights under European Union law . 
ENGLISH In 1999, we managed to advise the complainant , or transfer the complaint to a competent body , in about half of the cases . 
ENGLISH Of these , we transferred 71 cases to the European Parliament to be dealt with as petitions and advised a further 142 complainants of their rights to petition the European Parliament . 
ENGLISH In many cases , complaints against national , regional or local authorities could be dealt with effectively by an Ombudsman in the Member States concerned . 
ENGLISH In every Member State there should be a non - judicial body which can assist European citizens in conflicts with Member States' administration concerning their rights under European Union law . 
ENGLISH As a believer in subsidiarity , I remain convinced that the most effective way to achieve this result is through the development of a network of cooperation with these Ombudsmen as similar bodies such as petitions committees . 
ENGLISH We organised jointly with the French Ombudsman , Mr Stasi , a seminar for national Ombudsmen and similar bodies . 
ENGLISH In Paris in September 1999, Mr Perry , the first vice - chairman of the Committee on Petitions , represented the European Parliament . 
ENGLISH The regional Ombudsmen and similar bodies were invited to a meeting in Florence last year in which Mr Gemelli , the chairman of the Committee on Petitions , also attended . 
ENGLISH I strongly believe that cooperation with them on equal terms will achieve the best results for European citizens . 
ENGLISH At the beginning , great doubts were expressed as to whether the European Ombudsman had sufficient powers to achieve anything for the citizen . 
ENGLISH These doubts were unjustified because the Community 's institutions and bodies have responded properly to the Ombudsman 's work . 
ENGLISH Since the beginning , they have themselves settled the complaint to the satisfaction of the complainant in over 180 cases . 
ENGLISH For example , they have replied to unanswered letters , made payments that are due and reversed previous unfavourable decisions . 
ENGLISH This indicates a spirit of responsiveness and flexibility superior to those national administrations of which I have experience . 
ENGLISH Sixty - two of these settlements occurred last year , reducing the scope for friendly solutions to be proposed by the Ombudsman . 
ENGLISH However , we did achieve one friendly solution in 1999 in a case where the Commission and the Council agreed that the complainant should be paid the amount due him for his work as a European Union regional coordinator monitoring the Palestinian elections . 
ENGLISH If the institution or body concerned will not correct the maladministration itself , the Ombudsman 's ultimate weapon is to draft a recommendation followed , if necessary , by a special report to European Parliament . 
ENGLISH Five years ago , there were many people who said that the Community institutions and bodies did not pay much heed to European Parliament . 
ENGLISH Even if they might have been right then , things have clearly changed since the Treaty of Amsterdam and the fall of the Santer Commission . 
ENGLISH In 1999 we made ten draft recommendations . 
ENGLISH In seven cases the institution concerned has accepted a draft recommendation . 
ENGLISH In two cases the Ombudsman has made a special report to the European Parliament . 
ENGLISH One case remains ongoing , since Europol needs more time to comply with the draft recommendation that it should approve some public access to documents . 
ENGLISH I believe that the European Ombudsman 's activities have reached the level that one has the right to expect of a body which is new and consists of 25 persons working in a fairly complex legal environment . 
ENGLISH We are achieving results for European citizens , and this is what matters above all . 
ENGLISH I would like to use this opportunity to thank all the Community institutions and bodies for another year of constructive cooperation . 
ENGLISH I would especially like to address the Commission and its responsible Member , Mrs Loyola de Palacio , and thank her for continuing her predecessor 's commitment to an honest and constructive attitude towards cooperation with the Ombudsman . 
ENGLISH I would also like to express my warm appreciation for the helpful and cooperative attitude towards the Ombudsman 's office shown by the Committee on Petitions and especially its vice - chairman , Mr Gemelli , and also thank the rapporteur for the Committee on Petitions Mrs Thors , for her important work on her comprehensive report . 
ENGLISH Thank you for your attention . 
ENGLISH Mr President , the report that I am presenting this morning is effectively a dual report which reflects the work of the committee itself and the work of the office of Parliament 's Mediator for Transnationally Abducted Children , Mrs Banotti . 
ENGLISH I should also like to express my personal appreciation of the work of Mr Söderman , the Ombudsman . 
ENGLISH I should also like to thank the secretariat of the committee not least for the statistical break - down which is provided there which , I must confess , is not my own work . 
ENGLISH I would urge Members who are not familiar with the Committee on Petitions to read these reports . 
ENGLISH It might well be of use to them in providing a service for the people they represent . 
ENGLISH I would also draw their attention to the website mentioned , set up under the Europe Direct initiative , which could provide useful information and possibly avoid the need for a petition or indeed confirm it as an appropriate vehicle . 
ENGLISH The aim of the Committee on Petitions itself is to provide a good and effective service for individuals within the European Union and for civil society generally . 
ENGLISH Any individual , citizen , resident or group may petition Parliament if they feel that Community law or principles are not being properly applied at whatever level . 
ENGLISH Last year we received 958 petitions of which 492 were considered admissible . 
ENGLISH I will mention just two of them to demonstrate the range of the topics and the potential effectiveness of the mechanism . 
ENGLISH We had one British petitioner who succeeded in getting her years of teaching experience recognised by the French authorities , presumably affecting her salary and promotion prospects . 
ENGLISH In another case a petition from a Spanish citizen , acting for an environmental association resulted in infringement proceedings being brought against the Spanish authorities in relation to the Habitats Directive , a frequent cause of complaint -- the directive , not the authorities -- with lasting national effect . 
ENGLISH It is such cases which provide valuable feedback to the European Parliament and the other institutions as to how our legislation works to the benefit of the individuals and society , or not , as the case may be . 
ENGLISH We could not do our work effectively on this committee without the support of numerous Commission officials who investigate cases and instigate proceedings where necessary . 
ENGLISH I wish to express our thanks . 
ENGLISH We know we could provide a more rapid and effective service if Member States could provide an equally committed response in replying to requests for information and explanation . 
ENGLISH In one case we are currently dealing with it has taken 14 months to get a reply to a letter . 
ENGLISH That is not unusual . 
ENGLISH That is why we are recommending that the Council or relevant permanent representation should also be represented at our meetings so that they develop a greater understanding of the problems citizens face and respond effectively . 
ENGLISH The aim of the committee is to improve the overall quality of our feedback mechanisms . 
ENGLISH Some of our ideas are mentioned in this report . 
ENGLISH Others will appear in a further report in September from Mr Perry and Mrs Keßler . 
ENGLISH We are proposing , as we did last year , a database mechanism so that petitioners and Members can track the progress of reports and see where the problems lie . 
ENGLISH We trust that the relevant authorities will bear this in mind this year and act on the proposal . 
ENGLISH There are various points concerning our relations with other committees . 
ENGLISH We would ask them to call on the Committee on Petitions more often to express an opinion on certain areas where concern has arisen . 
ENGLISH We would like to be involved in preparing joint reports on areas of particular concern such as the environment , social security , consumer protection and so on . 
ENGLISH We would also wish to use the experience of our committee members through their work on other committees of Parliament to institute a rapporteur - style system for specific topics . 
ENGLISH We are also keen to establish links with petitions committees in other Member States , with a view to exchanging good ideas and understanding . 
ENGLISH We consider as a committee that petitions are a valuable and empowering tool for democracy in what can often feel like a remote and anonymous institution . 
ENGLISH We need to value this mechanism and use the experience of the people we represent , as expressed through their petitions to improve our work as a whole . 
ENGLISH I commend the report to the House . 
ENGLISH Mr President , Commissioner and Mr Söderman , the rapporteur' - s and the committee' - s understanding of the Ombudsman' - s report for 1999 -- the year characterised by crises within the EU institutions and by an immense distrust of the administration -- is that the citizens will only view European integration as legitimate if they have rights that mean they can actively participate in a political dialogue with the institutions . 
ENGLISH The political dialogue is not , however , a real dialogue if the citizens do not have the right to receive information and to have access to the documents that they ask for and if the opinions they express are not paid attention to , discussed or taken seriously . 
ENGLISH What has all this got to do with the Ombudsman' - s task ? 
ENGLISH The Ombudsman' - s task is , of course , according to the Treaty , to investigate cases of maladministration within the Community institutions and within the public bodies . 
ENGLISH At the request of the European Parliament , the Ombudsman gave a definition of the term - & # x2018 ; maladministration & # x2019 ; - in the annual report for 1997 . 
ENGLISH These cases occur when a public body fails to act in accordance with a rule or principle that is binding upon it . 
ENGLISH In the report , the committee stresses that this jointly approved definition of - & # x2018 ; maladministration & # x2019 ; - also involves the right to inspect how the institutions have interpreted Community law . 
ENGLISH Irrespective of the legal form the Charter of Fundamental Rights will take , it will , in any case , be an expression of the Member States' - common constitutional traditions which , in accordance with Article 6 of the Treaty , shall be respected by the Union and therefore also by the institutions and public bodies . 
ENGLISH The committee observes , therefore , that the Ombudsman ought to play an important part in implementing a future charter of citizens' - rights . 
ENGLISH The committee has also expressed its clear support for the fact that the Charter of Fundamental Rights ought to contain rules which give citizens the right to expect good administration within the EU . 
ENGLISH - & # x2018 ; Good administration & # x2019 ; - is the opposite of - & # x2018 ; maladministration & # x2019 ; - . 
ENGLISH The right to good administration , both with respect to the Charter of Fundamental Rights and the Code of Good Administrative Behaviour which Parliament and the Ombudsman have sought , should at least contain : the right to have one' - s case heard , the right to inspect documents , the right to prompt answers from the administration and the right to receive replies supported by reasons . 
ENGLISH All these aspects have been central to the Ombudsman' - s work . 
ENGLISH These rights are prerequisites for the active citizenship that is necessary if the EU is to regain the confidence of its citizens . 
ENGLISH It is these rights that make citizenship active instead of passive . 
ENGLISH Good administration can create conditions for active citizenship , whereas maladministration can undermine these conditions . 
ENGLISH What are the most common complaints to the Ombudsman and into which categories do they fall ? 
ENGLISH Incomplete or refused information , delays that could have been avoided , discrimination , lack of the right to defence . 
ENGLISH They want to be active citizens . 
ENGLISH These conclusions can be drawn from the ever increasing number of complaints to the Ombudsman and from the nature of these complaints . 
ENGLISH The Ombudsman has become renowned for his work for the wider public . 
ENGLISH An investigation that he completed a few years ago resulted in most of the Community' - s institutions and public bodies currently having legislation that allows the public to have access to documents . 
ENGLISH He has tirelessly continued the work for real transparency and for its no longer being possible for data secrecy and personal protection to be used to prevent the public' - s scrutiny of the activities of the authorities . 
ENGLISH Step by step , the Ombudsman has developed his work , endeavoured to obtain better administration and gained the trust of the citizens . 
ENGLISH His cooperation with the national ombudsmen is also important , as will be his future cooperation with the corresponding bodies in the candidate countries . 
ENGLISH This is substantial work that Parliament has reason to support . 
ENGLISH It ought to do this by making sufficient financial resources available to the Ombudsman so that he can carry out the necessary investigations which the mandate requires . 
ENGLISH We should in the future also make sure that we support an Ombudsman who is independent in his decision making . 
ENGLISH I would like to address a big thank you to the Ombudsman and his office , as well as to the secretariat at the Committee on Petitions which , as we know , is currently working under difficult conditions . 
ENGLISH Mr President , the European Parliament' - s Committee on Petitions is a very special body . 
ENGLISH It receives complaints from citizens , as the two previous speakers rightly said , who believe their rights as EU citizens have been restricted . 
ENGLISH As draftsman of an opinion on the right of residence , I would like to make a few comments on the specific problems in this area . 
ENGLISH The free movement of persons is one of the basic freedoms achieved through European integration . 
ENGLISH Since the Maastricht Treaty there is a general right of residence , provided the individual concerned has adequate means of subsistence and adequate health insurance protection . 
ENGLISH Freedom of movement and right of residence can be restricted only for reasons of law and order , security or health . 
ENGLISH Experience has shown the Committee on Petitions that in practice the right to freedom of movement comes up against a great many problems because : ( a ) Member State authorities are slow to transpose the rules of Community law , ( b ) problems arise with the recognition of diplomas and qualifications in the case of specific professions , ( c ) the rules on social security have not been standardised , e.g. complicated forms for the refund of medical costs . 
ENGLISH An analysis of Treaty infringement proceedings between 1996 and 1999 shows that in 97 cases there was a direct link between the petition and the Treaty infringement proceedings before the European Court of Justice . 
ENGLISH Unfortunately , the Council often ignores the communications from the Committee on Petitions about serious violations of Community law by Member State authorities . 
ENGLISH That reflects a negative attitude towards the European citizens' - right of petition . 
ENGLISH Mr President , the right to petition and to complain is not some recent invention . 
ENGLISH Even 2000 years ago petitioners could put their concerns before the Roman emperor . 
ENGLISH But this right was always in danger of being changed , restricted or abolished . 
ENGLISH Yesterday' - s petitioners have become today' - s responsible European citizens . 
ENGLISH No administration or institution is infallible . 
ENGLISH Many petitions point to a discrepancy between the legal provisions and European integration . 
ENGLISH So petitions are a gauge for the relations between the citizens and the legislator and there are many levels of petitions . 
ENGLISH A population of hamsters in an industrial area is of just as much concern to us as the ban on silicon implants or the introduction of a heavy goods tax . 
ENGLISH I turn now to the Ombudsman . 
ENGLISH It was , and is , to Mr Söderman' - s credit that he has done so much to create greater transparency and openness within the European administrations . 
ENGLISH Since most of the complaints in the Ombudsman' - s remit relate to the European Commission and concern a lack of transparency , work needs to be done to improve this situation . 
ENGLISH New office technologies cannot be used as grounds for the lack of transparency either . 
ENGLISH Comprehensible , substantiated replies to the citizens create trust , the opposite gives rise to distrust and a rising number of complaints that need to be dealt with , which therefore in turn creates costs . 
ENGLISH The Ombudsman' - s proposal for a Code of Good Administrative Behaviour is particularly welcome . 
ENGLISH The citizens have a basic right to an open and responsible administration geared to providing services , since after all it is paid for out of their taxes . 
ENGLISH In my view it is most important for the European Ombudsman to play an independent role , which can serve as an example for the introduction of national ombudsmen in the candidate countries and in my Land of Thüringen . 
ENGLISH Mr President , Mr Söderman , we in the Group of the European Liberal , Democrat and Reform Party , and myself personally , are proud that our Ombudsman is courageous , enterprising and able to act . 
ENGLISH It is extremely important that we have someone with such integrity who has dared to stand up for openness and transparency and against the culture of underhandedness , secrecy and , unfortunately in certain cases , of cheating and corruption , which also exists in the European institutions . 
ENGLISH Only an open and public administration can win support among those who are working here amongst the politicians and among the citizens whom we represent . 
ENGLISH The line the Ombudsman is pursuing has a lot of support amongst the citizens of all Member States . 
ENGLISH It is an indisputable fact , and there are several international scientific reports to prove it , that there is a crystal - clear connection between a high level of openness and transparency in the administration and a low level of corruption . 
ENGLISH That is , of course , also true in the European institutions . 
ENGLISH That is why it is so important for us to have a completely independent ombudsman who can act independently and without being subject to any lobbying whatsoever or to interested parties attempting to influence him . 
ENGLISH The only criticism that can be directed at the Ombudsman is probably that , unfortunately , the institution is still far too little known in many Member States and that far too few citizens are aware of this right . 
ENGLISH This is probably something which I would like to see concentrated on in the future . 
ENGLISH To summarise , the Ombudsman fulfils a very important function . 
ENGLISH I would like to congratulate him on the work he has carried out during the year and wish him luck in the future . 
ENGLISH Mr President , Commissioner , Mr Söderman , it may be well to remember that just a year and a half ago there was a debate in this Chamber over whether we needed a Committee on Petitions in general . 
ENGLISH I am very pleased to be able to say that the Committee on Petitions has again shown its indispensability , especially at a time like this , when we wish to enhance the status of the ordinary citizen in the European Union . 
ENGLISH I genuinely hope that the Commission on Petitions succeeds in establishing good levels of co - operation with the other committees in the coming year . 
ENGLISH I believe that we will be able to draft joint reports on the most important problem areas . 
ENGLISH With regard to the Ombudsman , he has truly established his position and independence . 
ENGLISH The growing number of grievances is an indication that the public have found him , and we members of the European Parliament have often been able to guide people in his direction to have their problems solved . 
ENGLISH Public access to documents is an issue that will occupy us in the future , and we have already had some valuable advice on the matter from the Ombudsman . 
ENGLISH Mr President , in one minute one cannot say much , so I am going to take this opportunity to summarise . 
ENGLISH Firstly , I wish to thank the rapporteur , Mrs Lambert , for taking up all our proposals in the debate . 
ENGLISH There are therefore not even any amendments . 
ENGLISH Secondly , I wish to say that at this stage nobody doubts that the Committee on Petitions and the Ombudsman make an extremely important contribution to compliance with Community law . 
ENGLISH Like Mrs Hautala , I am therefore very happy that the Committee on Petitions has survived the attempts to remove it , since , as well as demanding compliance with Community law , it is the committee which is closest to the citizens . 
ENGLISH It is the committee which makes the institutions most visible to the citizens . 
ENGLISH The greatest problem is probably the long procedure which follows a complaint by a citizen . 
ENGLISH The most important petitions deal with social and environmental issues , which are the matters of most concern . 
ENGLISH The speeding up of the process is therefore an important issue which has been taken up by Mrs Lambert . 
ENGLISH Mr President , the Radical Members of the Bonino List will support the two reports , and they value and support the work of the Ombudsman . 
ENGLISH In our opinion , this issue is relevant to all the institutions , having a bearing on Parliament 's own work as well . However , in particular , precisely because the Ombudsman wishes there to be as much focus as possible on his work , we feel that the possibility for the Ombudsman to attach an electronic signature could be the first step towards introducing the use of this vehicle within the institutions . 
ENGLISH I would just like to comment on an important statement which has not received due attention . 
ENGLISH The Ombudsman has told us that the Commission has made no progress this year in the area of transparency . Transparency is an effective weapon against fraud and corruption . 
ENGLISH In particular , on 7 December last , President Prodi undertook to find and propose legal and organisational solutions to give both internal and external candidates to Commission competitions access to their examination papers . 
ENGLISH Would the Ombudsman please inform us , in the same way that he has informed us that Europol needs more time to comply with the recommendation , whether the commitment made by President Prodi on 7 December to making papers available by 1 July 2000 has already been implemented or not . 
ENGLISH Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , I gather from the Ombudsman' - s Annual Report that , as we have now heard , the main complaint of the citizens is about lack of transparency . 
ENGLISH But it appears that not everyone concerned is aware of this problem . 
ENGLISH The Commission has submitted a proposal for a regulation on public access to documents which you , Mr Söderman , rightly criticised in public as not going far enough . 
ENGLISH Indeed there has been quite a lot written on the subject . 
ENGLISH The spirit underlying this proposal can be gauged from the statement by the Advisory Committee of Independent Experts . 
ENGLISH According to the experts' - second report , like all political institutions the Commission needs room to consider , to formulate policy before it becomes public , because policy that is made directly before the public eye is often bad policy . 
ENGLISH As a representative of the European public , I find this approach to questions of transparency and of policy - making in general unacceptable . 
ENGLISH Mr President , I would like to add my congratulations and thanks to the Ombudsman for the report which he has presented this year and also to Mrs Thors and Mrs Lambert for their reports to the Parliament . 
ENGLISH All these reports , particularly that of the Ombudsman , show the very reliable , dependable work that has been done over the year . 
ENGLISH I saw that at first hand when I attended the seminar in Paris . 
ENGLISH It was very good to see the respect in which the European Ombudsman is held by his colleagues , the national ombudsmen . 
ENGLISH On access to documents , we happen to think that the views of the Constitutional Affairs Committee are important , but that should not be taken to mean that we have any doubts at all about the principle that the Ombudsman must have access to documents . 
ENGLISH In that he has our full support . 
ENGLISH It is surprising that last year the Petitions Committee was at some risk and the report by Mrs Lambert shows the very good work that has been down by the Petitions Committee . 
ENGLISH With our chairman Mr Gemelli we are now looking at ways of making the Petitions Committee more effective and more efficient in the work it does on behalf of citizens . 
ENGLISH One of the important things that we will be bringing forward to the Parliament is a Code of Good Administrative Behaviour . 
ENGLISH It is important that citizens and the officials of the institutions know what is reasonable behaviour so that all have a standard to which they can refer . 
ENGLISH I would also like to thank the Commission for the support we have received in the Petitions Committee . That has been very good and very effective through the year . 
ENGLISH I hope under the French Presidency we will get the same support from the Council but that unfortunately has been lacking in the past . 
ENGLISH Mr President , I should like to start by congratulating the two rapporteurs on their interesting comments . 
ENGLISH With its ever widening circle of activities , covering a broad range of citizens' interests , the European Union is turning into a modern Leviathan , complete with the inevitable high - handedness which accompanies every administrative mechanism ; from certain points of view , it is becoming even more dangerous than the equivalent national government services . 
ENGLISH That is because control mechanisms have not kept pace with the increase in activities . 
ENGLISH There are three ways of blocking the dangers which result from this extensive administrative mechanism in the European Union . 
ENGLISH The proposal by the rapporteur , Mrs Thors , that the Commission include a section on reports and complaints in the annual report on Community law and the proposed organisational agreement making it easier for complaints to be examined quickly need to be followed up here . 
ENGLISH If the tenet of these proposals is extrapolated , the suggestion is that the European Parliament should , in the future , devote more time to these matters , which are equally important if it is to enhance its status and its right to aspire to codecision with the Council . 
ENGLISH In more general terms , it is time to see parliamentary control exercised on a different footing . 
ENGLISH The second way is to introduce the European Charter of Fundamental Rights as a binding charter guaranteeing European citizens immediate rights , both adjectival and substantive , which protect their interests fairly and which convert to the right to compensation in the event that their interests are attacked . 
ENGLISH The increasingly likely prospect of a Charter which amounts to no more than a declaration will obviously damage the credibility of the European Union which , while abundantly eloquent on the importance of transparency in the operation of its institutions as a basic policy objective and accessibility to European citizens as a basic factor in achieving it , shies from recognising the rudimentary mechanism needed in order to achieve these objectives . 
ENGLISH The third way is to strengthen and improve the role of the ombudsman , mainly by giving him easier access to all the documents needed in order to conduct an efficient investigation . 
ENGLISH At the same time , the wealth of material in his report should be closely studied and taken as the starting point for the changes which need to be made to the modus operandi of the Community institutions . 
ENGLISH I wish the ombudsman courage and good luck for the future . 
ENGLISH Mr President , I would like to start by thanking the European Ombudsman , Mr Söderman , the two rapporteurs , Mrs Lambert and Mrs Thors , all the members of the Committee on Petitions and the Secretariat . 
ENGLISH We started from the premise that the purpose of the institutions is to serve the citizens and that , therefore , any breach of the citizens' rights will lead to a loss of confidence in the institutions . 
ENGLISH We are currently required to create a complex , comprehensive , harmonious , functional legal framework , and we must therefore also create judicial mechanisms such as the Charter on Rights , a body of law establishing criminal , civil and administrative law , the agreement procedures for the mutual recognition of judgments passed by Member States , Europol and the sectoral agreements , the establishment of the European Fraud Investigation Office as a tool for investigating abuse of the law , the likely institution of the office of European Public Prosecutor which should be the investigating office of the Court of Justice , the separation of the careers of judges responsible for giving rulings and investigating magistrates , and the separation of criminal , civil and administrative responsibilities : all these are instruments which advance the progress of the European Union . 
ENGLISH Finally , we would like to request that , in a similar way to Parliament in the codecision procedure , the Committee on Petitions may be permitted to present its own justification for certain decisions , and we call for amendment of the Treaties in order to streamline the entire legal system and existing legislation . 
ENGLISH The Ombudsman controls power and solves disputes between those who hold power and those over whom power is exercised , and last year there were almost two thousand such cases . 
ENGLISH I would like to state seven principles . 
ENGLISH The bigger a union is , the greater the need for transparency . 
ENGLISH The newer it is the greater this need is , and the more complex it is , the greater the need for better transparency . 
ENGLISH The more multi - cultural it is the greater the transparency , and the more democratic it is the more open it likewise is . 
ENGLISH We are used to reading instructions for use with all equipment , down to how to use the whisk in the kitchen . 
ENGLISH The principles of good administration , which have been worthily established by the Ombudsman , are our citizens' - instructions for use with regard to Eurobureaucracy . 
ENGLISH There is no democracy without good administration , and that is why the Union Charter must contain the principles of good administration . 
ENGLISH I would like to make one more important point . Public access to documents in the information society and the principles concerning them must be upgraded in line with the new technology ; in other words , a grievance must be able to be made over the Internet and precedents and associated documents must be available in real time . 
ENGLISH My suggestion is that we need an Ombudsman' - s portal on the Net . 
ENGLISH Thank you for your work ! 
ENGLISH Mr President , as a member of the Committee on Petitions , I would particularly like to congratulate my fellow Member , Mrs Lambert , on her excellent report and I thank the European Commission for its valuable assistance in handling the petitions we receive . 
ENGLISH Petitions are a recognised right of European citizens and residents of the European Union , enabling them to take advantage of the rights given to them by the Treaties . 
ENGLISH Few citizens , however , are aware that they may submit a petition . 
ENGLISH The files that we handle , moreover , show a lack of understanding of the rights conferred by European citizenship . 
ENGLISH This , unfortunately , results in 50 % of petitions being inadmissible . 
ENGLISH Admissible petitions usually raise problems with freedom of movement , setting up businesses , social benefits , recognition of diplomas and qualifications and taxation . 
ENGLISH Furthermore , we are receiving more and more collective petitions concerning subjects relating to the environment , and with the extension of the competence of the European Union , it is conceivable that the number of such petitions and the number of areas handled will increase . 
ENGLISH In order to respond to citizens' - expectations , adequate coordination between the Committee on Petitions , the European institutions and national authorities is essential . 
ENGLISH Greater account must also be taken by the other parliamentary committees of the work carried out by our committee . 
ENGLISH The chronic absence of the Council from our committee meetings is detrimental to the correct handling of petitions . 
ENGLISH We are currently waiting too long for responses from the national authorities , sometimes even several years . 
ENGLISH We are fully aware of the extent of this task and the difficulties to be overcome . 
ENGLISH First of all , it cannot be denied that this committee is not very well known , although its work is indispensable in strengthening the link between citizens and the European Union . 
ENGLISH Furthermore , the structures and means of this committee must be strengthened in order to make it more effective , and a closer relationship with the petitions committees of the national authorities would be desirable . 
ENGLISH Finally , one of the strong points of the French Presidency' - s programme is a Europe that is closer to the citizens . 
ENGLISH The work of our committee falls within this sphere and it is up to us to make this expectation a reality . 
ENGLISH Mr President , I want to welcome Mr Söderman this morning and to congratulate Mrs Lambert and Mrs Thors for their reports . 
ENGLISH The reality of our society is that if governments and administrations had their way they would never appoint Petitions Committees or Ombudsmen . 
ENGLISH By nature they tend to be secretive . 
ENGLISH They are only there because the citizens and their public representatives demand them and defend them when they are there . 
ENGLISH Therefore , it is important that we continue to demand that the Ombudsman 's office and the Petitions Committee of Parliament are adequately resourced . 
ENGLISH In Parliament it is disgraceful that the Petitions Committee , the single most important direct contact that the citizen has with this institution and with the other institutions of the European Union , is treated the way it is treated . 
ENGLISH It does not have adequate secretarial assistance . 
ENGLISH It is treated abominably in relation to translations , which are down at the bottom of the list . 
ENGLISH It is simply not good enough . 
ENGLISH I would appeal to the Commission and to the Council if they were here -- they ignore the Petitions Committee , as well as ignoring Parliament -- to give the resources that are necessary for these bodies to do their job . 
ENGLISH The Petitions Committee in particular is an important mechanism of access for the people of Europe . 
ENGLISH It is important that we ensure that it can do its work effectively . 
ENGLISH The two most important issues that come before the Petitions Committee are the recognition of people 's qualifications to work in other Member States and the environmental impact of construction development . 
ENGLISH In particular , people are concerned that environment impact studies , which are required under EU law , are treated as having no more worth than the paper they are written on . 
ENGLISH They are either ignored or they do not address the real issues . 
ENGLISH Mr President , I would personally like to congratulate Jacob Söderman on the good work he has done , which resulted in his re - election on 27 October last year . 
ENGLISH At the same time , I would like to praise the Ombudsman for a model annual report which is easy - to - read and , at the same time , comprehensive . 
ENGLISH It can be seen from the report that it is the Commission that is the subject of the majority of the investigations that have been undertaken , 77 - percent to be precise . 
ENGLISH It should certainly be emphasised that this is mainly due to the fact that the Commission is the institution that makes the most decisions directly affecting citizens . 
ENGLISH In the report on individual complaints , it emerges , however , that there is insufficient transparency . 
ENGLISH Insufficient and inadequate information was also the most common cause of complaint . 
ENGLISH Openness is important if citizens are to be able to have more opportunity to influence how the EU operates and if tendencies to corruption , cheating and fraud are to be checked . 
ENGLISH I would like to highlight the fact that this report emphasises that all EU institutions and bodies must establish a Code of Good Administrative Behaviour . 
ENGLISH There is a risk , however , which is also evident from the Ombudsman' - s annual report , that the significance of such a code would vary considerably from one institution or body to another . 
ENGLISH The PR side of the Ombudsman' - s activities has already been brought up by other speakers and can never be underestimated . 
ENGLISH I would like to close with some questions : What would be the consequences of a Charter of Fundamental Rights for the Ombudsman' - s work ? 
ENGLISH What are the main reasons for the institutions' - shortcomings in relation to the citizens ? 
ENGLISH Is there a lack of will , are the resources insufficient or is there unreasonable bureaucracy which is preventing and delaying the handling of this issue ? 
ENGLISH Mr President , on the basis of the Ombudsman' - s report and that of Mrs Thors , we may say that the institution of the Ombudsman is well established . 
ENGLISH The Committee acknowledges the work done by Jacob Söderman , and the public too have discovered the Ombudsman . 
ENGLISH The basic pillars of the work of the Ombudsman are independence and transparency . 
ENGLISH It is just as pertinent to emphasise the importance of good administration for the public and for the authority of the EU in the eyes of our citizens . 
ENGLISH It is good that the committee supports the Ombudsman in his efforts to create regulations for good administration . 
ENGLISH The principle of good administration must also be included in the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights which is being drafted . 
ENGLISH From the report it appears that only around 30 % of the complaints to the Ombudsman fall within his sphere of responsibility . 
ENGLISH For that reason there has to be closer cooperation between the Ombudsman and national and regional ombudsmen . 
ENGLISH Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , it is a pleasure for me to participate in this debate today , together with Mr Söderman , the Ombudsman , whose work in the service of the citizens of the Union is very important . 
ENGLISH I wish to say that the Commission believes that the citizen should always be the focus of our concerns . 
ENGLISH The citizen is ultimately the beneficiary of our activities and is our raison d' - être . 
ENGLISH In this respect , both the Committee on Petitions and the Ombudsman play a key role , on different levels and with different purposes , but they are both nevertheless essential to the improvement of the operation of the institutions . 
ENGLISH The Committee on Petitions deals with the specific concerns of the citizens and , in this respect , as has been pointed out by Mrs Lambert -- who I warmly congratulate on her report -- the petitions presented to Parliament illustrate the problems of the citizens in relation to European administrations and also , in many cases , national administrations , at the same time highlighting the legislative vacuums which exist on both European and national levels . 
ENGLISH He urges us to improve the management and quality of services by indicating the weak points to us , the points which need improvement and greater attention . 
ENGLISH However , nobody wants a more effective and transparent administration as much as we do . It is we who are responsible for this administration and to this end any criticisms of our defects are welcome . 
ENGLISH We can only confront our defects if we know what they are . 
ENGLISH I must insist that this is why we give such importance to the work of both the Ombudsman and the Committee on Petitions ; so that the institutions may work properly . 
ENGLISH With regard to Mrs Lambert' - s report , I would like to deal with two specific issues . 
ENGLISH One of them , relating to cooperation between institutions , is essential to the improvement of the operation of the Committee on Petitions and its capacity for action . 
ENGLISH In this regard , I would like to express my satisfaction because the report highlights the constructive role of the Commission in the examination of petitions and because it considers it to be satisfactory on the whole . 
ENGLISH It awards us a sort of - 'pass' - , and I thank you , but we will try to improve . 
ENGLISH We see this is as a stimulus to make a greater effort , to work better and cooperate more . 
ENGLISH Secondly , it proposes a review of the examination procedures of the Committee on Petitions . 
ENGLISH It seems to me a great idea to rearrange the examination of petitions by themes , to give specialised rapporteurs the task of examining these petitions with greater care , and , where necessary , to draw conclusions which will allow the deficiencies to be corrected , take decisions to resolve possible vacuums in legislative texts , or counteract the unwanted effects of these texts . 
ENGLISH It is true that we sometimes take a long time to reply . 
ENGLISH It is not always the Commission' - s fault . There are times when we are relying on responses from national administrations , but it is true that in this respect we have to make an effort to improve and make an even more satisfactory contribution to the work of this committee . 
ENGLISH I would like to highlight the importance of cooperation with other administrations . We wish to improve this cooperation as far as possible . 
ENGLISH The Commission is open to dialogue , both with Parliament , and with the Council itself , in order to reduce the time taken to produce replies and increase transparency and communication with Parliament and the Committee on Petitions . 
ENGLISH With regard to the Thors report , I wish to say that we agree with the need to consolidate the independence of the Ombudsman as an institution and support his work towards transparency and openness . 
ENGLISH We also accept the definition of maladministration as being when a public body does not act in accordance with a rule or principle which is binding upon it . 
ENGLISH Nevertheless , I wish to say that , as Mr Söderman has pointed out very well , the Ombudsman is a non - judicial body , and in that sense , it can in no way substitute judicial bodies . 
ENGLISH Its tasks are different from those of law courts . 
ENGLISH I believe that it is very important , in the relations between the Commission , the Ombudsman and other institutions and bodies , to systematically respect the institutional balance laid down in the Treaties . 
ENGLISH It is true that the increasing reality of the institution of the Ombudsman , which in some ways is a younger institution than some of the other European institutions , requires some time to mature so that the citizens may become aware of it . 
ENGLISH The Ombudsman , in his report , has indicated that the number of complaints , investigations and inquiries over the last year have increased considerably , and this is simply the result of greater awareness of the institution on the part of the citizens . 
ENGLISH We also need time for the relations between the Ombudsman and the other institutions to mature in order to establish the desired balances and resolve the obvious tensions which may occur until things are working properly . 
ENGLISH However , I must say that , so far , the cooperation between the Commission and the institution of the Ombudsman , represented , of course , by Mr Söderman , has been wonderful . 
ENGLISH I would like very briefly to point out that these institutions are important because any action by an administration may at some time display a lack of transparency , a lack of efficiency , a violation of basic rights or even corruption . 
ENGLISH However , I wish to say that in no way can we portray the Community administration as particularly laden with defects . 
ENGLISH If we compare it with other administrations , I believe that it compares very favourably and that we score highly in these areas . 
ENGLISH Ladies and gentlemen , finally , I would like once again to congratulate the Ombudsman , Mr Söderman , on the work which he is doing , on the significant increase in his actions and his work , on his cooperation , although he sometimes makes criticisms , but that is his job and his role , and we in the Commission understand that . 
ENGLISH The drawing up of a code of conduct applicable to the relations between Community officials and the citizens is a priority , and work is being done in that area by Mr Kinnock and the Commission in general . 
ENGLISH With regard to the amendments of the Statute of the Ombudsman , the competent parliamentary committee must issue an opinion in accordance with Article 195 of the Treaty , and when Parliament takes the initiative , we will analyse all the relevant issues . 
ENGLISH I would like once again to congratulate the two rapporteurs , and of course congratulate and thank Mr Söderman for the magnificent work which he is carrying out with independence and rigour . 
ENGLISH Mr President , I am grateful to you for giving me the floor to answer questions . 
ENGLISH Mr Turco asked about the right to complain by e - mail . 
ENGLISH This has been possible with the European Ombudsman 's office for some years now , since Mr Dell'Alba made us recognise that this would be important . 
ENGLISH At the moment about 20 % of the complaints we receive are by e - mail . 
ENGLISH If you look at our website you will find a form which can be sent directly by e - mail . 
ENGLISH Mr Paasilinna said the website could be developed in that direction . 
ENGLISH I should like to stress that this draft regulation is now before Parliament . 
ENGLISH The committee work can start . 
ENGLISH In the discussions I have had with Mr Prodi he told me that he is ready to consider favourably all well - founded proposals to improve this regulation . 
ENGLISH This is now before Parliament . 
ENGLISH Mr Malmström mentioned ignorance about the Ombudsman 's office in some Member States . 
ENGLISH Our difficulty has been that , if we make too much propaganda about ourselves , we get too many complaints falling outside our mandate . 
ENGLISH So we try to find those citizens who have a problem with the administration and might have reason to complain . 
ENGLISH Members of Parliament are a very important source of information for many citizens . 
ENGLISH I would be very glad if you would take part in the work of making the opportunities for submitting petitions and complaints better known to the citizens . 
ENGLISH Thank you kindly , Mr Söderman . 
ENGLISH The debate is closed . 
ENGLISH The vote will take place today at 12 noon . 
ENGLISH Single European sky 
ENGLISH The next item is the report ( A5 - 0141 / 2000 ) by Mr Atkins , on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy , Transport and Tourism , on the Commission communication to the Council and the European Parliament on the creation of the single European sky [ COM ( 1999 ) 614 -- C5 - 0085 / 2000 -- 2000 / 2053 ( COS ) ] . 
ENGLISH Mr President , we meet at a time when congestion in our skies has never been greater . 
ENGLISH According to the statistics , the incidence of a 15 - minute delay has risen from 12.7 % in 1991 to 30.3 % in 1999 and is still rising . 
ENGLISH We are worried not only about the effects that congestion has in terms of inconvenience and the implications for the economic stability of our Union , but we are also concerned first and foremost about threats to safety that may result from it . 
ENGLISH It is a fact that there is a shortage of air traffic controllers . 
ENGLISH The demand for air transport is rising almost daily because of cheap fares , the desire of people to travel abroad on holiday and on business or even to be able to take a few days' break at the drop of a hat has added to this pressure . 
ENGLISH Whilst this pressure has been growing , we owe it to those working in the system to congratulate them and thank them for what they have done . 
ENGLISH Unfortunately -- and this is not entirely their fault -- they are not coping with the pressures as well as we would wish : we have all had experience of that only recently , as a result of the delays caused by the strike in France . 
ENGLISH All this , then , has a detrimental effect upon the mobility of our citizens , and in terms of the economic and financial and social costs for our businesses and a wide variety of other people affected on a day - to - day basis by what is going on . 
ENGLISH I would like to congratulate Commissioner Palacio for having the initiative to bring this to our committee in the terms that she did , and with the force and verve that she has shown , initially , in setting up the high level group , and also in the leadership that she has given to addressing this problem . 
ENGLISH The Council of Transport Ministers needs to take a political decision to address this . 
ENGLISH We cannot put it off any longer . 
ENGLISH It needs attention now . 
ENGLISH Military airspace and its abuse in some countries is something that we also have to address not just in terms of the space that is taken up by military aircraft , but also on occasions the abuse of the civil air corridors by military aircraft not abiding by civil air procedures . 
ENGLISH This too is an area which need to be addressed . 
ENGLISH In this report I have proposed -- and the committee has broadly accepted -- a suggestion that Eurocontrol should be a regulatory body with more powers , more effective sanctions and with the right of appeal for those who are affected by it . 
ENGLISH By the same token , we think that the provision of air traffic services should be open to liberalisation , subject to what each individual country decides is appropriate for itself . 
ENGLISH As Members may well know , in the United Kingdom we have addressed the subject by introducing a principle of privatisation . 
ENGLISH That may be right for us . 
ENGLISH It may be wrong for others . 
ENGLISH It is up to individual nation states to decide , but they must decide to address this problem of the division between regulation of their airspace on the one hand and the air service management provision that could be offered by others or other organisations . 
ENGLISH We do believe that there should be objective and independent criteria on how the system is managed , with incentives offered for the achievers and penalties offered for those who do not meet the desired levels . 
ENGLISH We think that passengers should be compensated for unjust delays and that their rights in these cases should be clear and well known . 
ENGLISH But above all we wish Commissioner Palacio , with our support , to press the Council of Ministers and all those associated with this to take urgent decisions . 
ENGLISH If there is one across - the - board criticism of the report from the industry , it is that perhaps it does not go far or fast enough . 
ENGLISH This cannot last any longer . 
ENGLISH We must address this issue now . 
ENGLISH Mr President , I would like , if I may , to deliver very briefly a few comments on this report . 
ENGLISH It seems obvious that we need to completely rethink the organisation of air traffic control in the European sky . 
ENGLISH In this respect , the Commission' - s initiative is commendable . 
ENGLISH A re - think is one thing , it is also obvious that everything must be carefully reviewed , but I think we should beware of a certain number of preconceived ideas found in reports , communications and speeches on this topic . 
ENGLISH It also seems obvious that the political division of the European sky no longer corresponds to the technical requirements and market requirements . 
ENGLISH I was extremely surprised to learn that in today' - s Europe , political boundaries still prevail when it comes to the organisation of air traffic control . 
ENGLISH A European air traffic control space must be created , but must this area be completely unified , and according to which criteria ? 
ENGLISH I have many doubts as to the conclusions of the report . 
ENGLISH It seems obvious to me that there are a number of advantages to dividing up air traffic control , as air traffic control involves segmenting the territory and technical security limits , but also human limitations mean that each air traffic controller , each control tower can only have a limited territory and a limited number of flights to monitor . 
ENGLISH In this respect , the cellular , segmented organisation of the European territory must be retained and , in a way , improved . 
ENGLISH I am therefore in favour of an increase in the number of air traffic control centres as , not the unification of the whole control system , but the unification of the legal system and also technological unification takes place , as this report , and the research behind the report , have highlighted the absence of European will & # x2026 ; 
ENGLISH Mr President , Madam Vice - President , ladies and gentlemen , first I want to give very warm thanks to my colleague Robert Atkins for drafting such an excellent report . 
ENGLISH He took great trouble not just to comment on the Commission' - s proposals but also to outline them . 
ENGLISH I regard the broad line of separating the regulatory from the operational function as the right one . 
ENGLISH Indeed in paragraphs 4 and 5 we note again that our Parliament has now decided on two occasions that the regulatory function is to be transferred to the European Union . 
ENGLISH That brings me back to the last speaker . 
ENGLISH Nor is that in any way a problem . 
ENGLISH Today we have 15 Member States in the European Union , and 12 more have applied to join . 
ENGLISH If we start to proceed according to the EEA system even at this point -- defining the common rules and then asking the candidate states their opinion -- we can integrate them . 
ENGLISH That is why I also think it is a good idea in the present situation for the European Commission to pool Member States' - interests in regard to the regulatory function in the framework of Eurocontrol . 
ENGLISH We do not need multilingualism , we need unanimity on the question of the regulatory function . 
ENGLISH I really would strongly urge the Commissioner to refer the proposals Parliament will be deciding on today back to the High Level Group and to continue ensuring that this working group produces very sound practical results . 
ENGLISH We have great respect for the vice - president , for she set up this group of military and civilian experts and the work is progressing well . 
ENGLISH There may still be some resistance in individual countries . 
ENGLISH We wish the vice - president much luck and success , so that come October we can submit an excellent programme . 
ENGLISH Mr President , can I first of all , on behalf of the Party of European Socialists , welcome the Commissioner 's initiative . 
ENGLISH We share her objectives , we support her aims . 
ENGLISH However , we do perhaps regret the lack of integration with other initiatives that she is pursuing , which is apparent if one reads her communication . 
ENGLISH We also note the lack of political will that exists within both the Commission and the Council , although it is worth perhaps reminding ourselves that this initiative started with the Council in June last year when it requested the Commissioner to bring forward this communication . 
ENGLISH Indeed in March of this year , the Council in Lisbon sought further progress , progress which I am sure we would all endorse . 
ENGLISH The Party of European Socialists also supports and indeed welcomes the rapporteur 's carefully judged position . 
ENGLISH It is subsidiarity in action : European where necessary , national where possible . 
ENGLISH I would like to thank him personally for taking on board many of our concerns , not least in the area of safety , which I acknowledge is now the number one priority for him in his report . 
ENGLISH The key concerns of the PSE include a regret at the lack of analysis of the real cause of air traffic delays . 
ENGLISH Airports' runway capacity , airline planning , passenger behaviour , airport infrastructure , as well as the shortage of controllers which was mentioned by the rapporteurs . 
ENGLISH A second concern of ours is this key principle , which we support and which needs to be developed further , namely the separation of regulation from service providers . 
ENGLISH That has to be a key building block of our new approach . 
ENGLISH The third principle we support is liberalisation but not privatisation ; and fourth and finally we want to see these proposals developed in conjunction with the proposed European Aviation Safety Authority . 
ENGLISH Between 1986 and 1996 air traffic in Europe doubled . 
ENGLISH It will double again in the coming ten years . 
ENGLISH We need to tackle this issue urgently and swiftly but in a coherent way . 
ENGLISH What we want to hear perhaps from the Commissioner today is a clear timetable from her as to the speed at which she will be acting in the months to come . 
ENGLISH We all know there will be people waiting in airport lounges this summer asking , why their plane is delayed , not for minutes but for hours . 
ENGLISH Hopefully the Commissioner today can bring forward a timetable for when those delays will cease . 
ENGLISH I look forward to her comments , particularly bringing this Parliament up to date on the conclusions last week of the Council which received the interim report of the high level group . 
ENGLISH I urge colleagues to back the rapporteur 's proposal and I urge the Commissioner to bring forward a very clear timetable . 
ENGLISH Mr President , Commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , Sir Robert Atkins has , in my view , compiled a sound report . 
ENGLISH He clearly indicated the direction we need to take , because we find ourselves in an absurd situation where we have a unified market for aviation but over and above that , we have an airspace , which has been divided up in an illogical manner . 
ENGLISH A number of MEPs have already described the effects of that . 
ENGLISH It is obvious that , if we want a single sky , we need to make investments , as the report clearly states . 
ENGLISH Thousands of people need to be recruited and investments made in technical infrastructure . 
ENGLISH As such , it is clear that money has to be earmarked for this . 
ENGLISH We need to tackle the issue at European level . 
ENGLISH We are all agreed that Member States need to finally decide for themselves what they want do . 
ENGLISH Needless to say , services need to come first , because air - traffic control does not exist in isolation . It is a service to airline companies and its customers . 
ENGLISH People sometimes overlook this aspect and only focus on their own patch . 
ENGLISH We are all agreed on this , and I therefore hope that we can make good progress . 
ENGLISH An important point , as Mr Watts has already pointed out , is safety . 
ENGLISH Nobody should compromise on safety . 
ENGLISH As such , Commissioner , what matters more than anything is that once the high - level group has published its findings in October , we need to receive proposals from yourself as quickly as possible . I do not think that this will cause any problems for you . 
ENGLISH Then , everyone will need to put pressure on the Council of Ministers , Member States will need to take decisions that need to be taken and take the course which we have indicated a few times in the European Parliament and which is once again highlighted in Sir Robert Atkins' - report . 
ENGLISH Mr President , the report deals with the problem of increasing air traffic . 
ENGLISH I want to focus on just one aspect of this report or , more specifically , on a major omission from it . 
ENGLISH A number of proposals are put forward but for me the problem with this report is its main thesis that congestion can just be solved with the liberalisation of the air traffic management and control system . 
ENGLISH What the options are doing is focusing on technical fixes , not the underlying trends . 
ENGLISH Certainly a single European sky would increase the efficiency with which European air space is used . 
ENGLISH Improvements in air traffic management would make more space available . 
ENGLISH Restricting the use of military air space would also make a significant difference . 
ENGLISH But none of these technical fixes are going to make a long - term impact unless we address the underlying problem , which is the unsustainable growth of air traffic . 
ENGLISH By failing to link the issue of congestion with air traffic reduction the report misses out on a vital strategy . 
ENGLISH It can be compared to rearranging buckets under the tap to stop a flood without considering the possibility of at least turning down the tap a little to reduce the flow of water . 
ENGLISH Consider the facts . 
ENGLISH The Commission 's recent report has already said the growth of the aviation sector is unsustainable and must be reversed and that growth is forecast to double in the next 15 years . 
ENGLISH That causes major congestion problems but it also causes major environmental problems as well -- not only the noise and pollution for people living around the airports but also the impact on global climate . 
ENGLISH Unfortunately this report fails to make the vital link between congestion and air traffic reduction and therefore misses a vital opportunity to address these problems in a lasting manner . 
ENGLISH Mr President , Commissioner , I think there is some ambiguity regarding the expression - & # x2018 ; single European sky & # x2019 ; - , because air traffic control is in fact , as you are well aware , already a European field of activity . 
ENGLISH There is already a European system for controlling the air space with Eurocontrol and there is already a body , the Central Flow Management Unit , based in Brussels . 
ENGLISH This is not perfect , of course , but they do already exist . 
ENGLISH The situation must therefore be improved starting with the statement , which is patently obvious , that delays have increased and that with traffic on the rise , they will become worse . 
ENGLISH I believe it would be sensible also to concentrate far more on the problems of types of plane , types of flow , stopovers and of course the continuing defence - related problems . 
ENGLISH Mr Zimeray said this earlier : yes , a plane journey is divided into different areas and the denser the traffic , the more divisions there are . 
ENGLISH Why ? 
ENGLISH Because dividing things into different areas is the human way of controlling or managing a number of aircraft . 
ENGLISH Therefore , in my opinion , thinking that there would be too many control centres is nonsense . 
ENGLISH Why not say in that case that there are too many aircraft ? 
ENGLISH In addition , as far as I know , there are no specific air traffic control hold - ups at borders either . 
ENGLISH The great proposal that is put to us for improving traffic consists of separating regulatory and control functions . 
ENGLISH But what is the value of such a measure ? 
ENGLISH It may well be necessary to consider more relevant divisions , why not ? 
ENGLISH The separation of functions would lead to the liberalisation of air traffic service provision , establishing , as indeed the Atkins report states , a liberalised internal market . 
ENGLISH Air traffic control is not an airline , nor is it a market sector . 
ENGLISH Let it not be forgotten that its main function is to ensure safety . 
ENGLISH I believe , however , that it is contrary to the interests of safety to subject aircraft control and monitoring bodies to market pressure . 
ENGLISH The ability to invest in new technological tools and training must therefore be safeguarded . 
ENGLISH In France -- and I am not trying to make France a model -- there is a general directorate that governs everything and , in the past few years , investments have been made and air traffic controllers have been recruited . 
ENGLISH The system is highly effective . 
ENGLISH On what grounds would you want to break.. . 
ENGLISH ( The President cut the speaker off ) 
ENGLISH Mr President , this report takes as its starting point an observation which is familiar to all Members of the European Parliament , as frequent users of aircraft as a means of transport : the skies are becoming more and more congested as a result of the growing demand for this form of transport . 
ENGLISH This surfeit of aircraft inevitably goes hand in hand with delays in air traffic , causing frustration for passengers , for companies , for business and for tourism . 
ENGLISH We share the rapporteur' - s opinion that air transport must be seen as a coherent system of operators , airports and air traffic control services , the component parts of which are directly interlinked and that only a study of this system as a whole will solve the problems of airspace capacity . 
ENGLISH We therefore welcome the creation of the High Level Working Group , comprising both civilian and military representatives and chaired by Commissioner de Palacio , who has committed herself to studying the issue of flight delays with a view to minimising the problems they cause . 
ENGLISH She will in due course be submitting a report on this issue to the Council . 
ENGLISH Our hope is that this final report will focus on drawing up viable proposals and practical , realistic and effective solutions to the problem of air traffic delays in Europe . We also hope that this report will abandon controversial suggestions that contribute very little to achieving this , such as advocating unrestricted competition between providers of air traffic management services . 
ENGLISH We fail to see the connection between this so - called liberalisation and the issue of delays , which must be resolved as a matter of urgency . 
ENGLISH Furthermore , any proposed solutions must respect the national sovereignty of the Member States and restrict the centralisation of regulatory action to absolutely essential matters . Any proposed solutions must also safeguard the particular requirements of defence and the specific military needs of each country and honour the commitments that all countries have made in the framework of international organisations . 
ENGLISH This does not mean that those countries are not obliged to make air traffic in high air space as flexible as possible and to seek more efficient ways of linking this with military operational needs . 
ENGLISH The European air management programme , whose purpose is to achieve complete coordination and integration of ATM systems at European level , must also continue to be expanded under Eurocontrol . The programme must be continued , because the problem lies not so much in the way air space is divided up , which could perhaps be justified in terms of ensuring that there is an appropriate number of aircraft and routes for each controller , as in the technical harmonisation of ATM systems . 
ENGLISH Mr President , this is a valuable report : it deals with a very sensitive and , I would say , extremely technical issue , although the problem is essentially political . 
ENGLISH One basic fact stands out in particular : the United States only operates one central air traffic control system while in Europe there are still 15 separate control systems . 
ENGLISH We also have to take Switzerland into account as well as the border countries . All these factors are difficulties which we will have to overcome . 
ENGLISH It is therefore right to call for a single air traffic control system , at least for the whole of the European Union , which clearly needs to include Switzerland for technical reasons . 
ENGLISH This is the basic point and it will enable us to resolve a number of difficulties as well as promote technical development , and here I am referring to the TCAS , GPS and GNNS systems , which clearly facilitate a more even flow of air traffic . 
ENGLISH I would like to finish by expressing some doubts regarding the application of the principle of subsidiarity : it is a fundamental principle but one which is not always easy to apply . 
ENGLISH Along with shipping regulations , air transport and air traffic regulations could genuinely be described as the most international rules in existence , and it is therefore difficult to break the matter down into different areas of responsibility . 
ENGLISH One last thing : I see that the report principally targets the large air carriers and airlines . 
ENGLISH Let us not disregard other air space users such as air - taxis , private companies and private users flying club aircraft . 
ENGLISH Mr President , Commissioner , securing a place in the transport market is an uphill struggle . 
ENGLISH This is the situation which the aviation sector currently faces . 
ENGLISH We need to consider the future of the sector for the reasons set out above . 
ENGLISH In my opinion , we should not accept unlimited growth as a fait accompli . 
ENGLISH It is true that certain freight cannot be transported in a way other than by air , but the vast majority of freight can . 
ENGLISH We should tailor our policy accordingly . 
ENGLISH This , however , requires long - term efforts and specific , effective investments in alternatives . 
ENGLISH We are not that far advanced yet . Indeed , the development of the Trans - European Networks has been a mixed success . 
ENGLISH We now need to look for alternative solutions in the short - term . 
ENGLISH In my view , what matters most is using the available space in the most effective way , both in terms of airspace and aircraft , which requires both personnel and organisational measures , as pointed out by the rapporteur . 
ENGLISH By creating one single European sky , we will provisionally have enough airspace to allow us to come up with structural measures to impede the unbridled growth of aviation , based on the current state of affairs . 
ENGLISH It is important not only to facilitate , but also to restrict where necessary . 
ENGLISH Although the rapporteur' - s initiatives are sound , it is early days and we should not rest on our laurels . We should keep thinking about the future of the transport sector and aviation , in particular . 
ENGLISH Mr Atkins' report addresses an issue which is perhaps the most important issue which either Mrs de Palacio or we in the European Parliament will have to deal with over the next four or five years and I must start by congratulating Mr Atkins on his approach in this specific report . 
ENGLISH Despite which , there is clearly a huge problem here . 
ENGLISH Overall delays in flights have risen from 12.7 % in 1991 to 30 % in 1999 . 
ENGLISH By 2010, the number of flights will have more or less doubled , resulting in wasted time , financial loss , saturation and , hence , safety risks . 
ENGLISH Eurocontrol has proven to be inadequate as a mechanism for managing air traffic . 
ENGLISH It is therefore absolutely essential that Vice - President de Palacio take decisive action , as she has done so far , in order to establish a real single European sky . 
ENGLISH The Member States must overcome their perhaps justified anxiety as regards the management of their airspace and , at some point , must take a longer - term view of newly - emerging needs which goes beyond their borders and beyond the present situation . 
ENGLISH We need to take immediate action and to regulate the myriad technical details , such as relations between civil and military aviation . 
ENGLISH In the meantime , however , passengers must be compensated for delays by airlines and must , of course , be apprised of their rights . 
ENGLISH I should like to close my intervention by reminding the House that , when the European Parliament voted on the report for the Intergovernmental Conference , it took view that the regulatory operation of air traffic in Europe , in our Member States , should be taken over by the European Union . 
ENGLISH Mr President , I thank Mr Atkins for his report and also for his willingness to cooperate and work with not only my group but other groups in coming up with this document . 
ENGLISH A visit to any of the major airports at this time of year will make that obvious . 
ENGLISH I hear that the average delay is said to be 20 minutes . 
ENGLISH All I can say from my experience is that somebody must be picking on Manchester very badly because I have not yet flown with Sabena from Brussels to Manchester when we have ever got anywhere near a 20 - minute delay . 
ENGLISH I can safely say that the timetable now is just a mere guide , not a definitive object , when planning travel . 
ENGLISH It is a clear problem that we need to address . 
ENGLISH The report must consider all the issues involving air traffic and adopt a twofold approach as proposed by the Commission . 
ENGLISH But not all delays are due to air traffic controls . 
ENGLISH It is the greatest cop - out in the world for airlines to say to passengers that the delay is caused by air traffic . 
ENGLISH There is never anybody from the air traffic controllers in the airport to turn around and say that is not true . 
ENGLISH Frankly , a lot of the delays are caused by the inefficiencies of some of the airlines themselves . 
ENGLISH Passengers go missing . 
ENGLISH What do these people get up to , I ask myself ? 
ENGLISH The issue of Eurocontrol is important . 
ENGLISH We support the compromise that is made in point 8 with regard to Eurocontrol . 
ENGLISH Finally , there are some TDI amendments with this . 
ENGLISH I am particularly interested in Amendment No 24 . 
ENGLISH I can only assume that the TDI group must.. . 
ENGLISH ( The President cut the speaker off ) 
ENGLISH Mr President , I would also like to thank the rapporteur for an excellent report . 
ENGLISH Experiences from last Monday reconfirm that this is a very important report indeed . 
ENGLISH Many Members of Parliament had a journey here to Strasbourg of up to fifteen hours . 
ENGLISH This situation is absolutely intolerable . Airspace is badly congested , flights are continually late and the rights of air passengers are totally non - existent . 
ENGLISH The report proposes relevant action that must be put into effect right away . 
ENGLISH However , I do not believe that it will be sufficient , as air traffic is expected to double over the next ten years . 
ENGLISH Short flight routes must be withdrawn in favour of rail , leaving room for longer flights , as there are simply no alternatives to these . 
ENGLISH Reports aimed at improving the competitiveness of rail transport are , from this point of view , very important . 
ENGLISH Environmental levies , which are being planned for air traffic , should not constrict long flights unfairly , but should work as an incentive to withdraw short flights in favour of rail . 
ENGLISH Mr President , Commissioner , with globalisation we have discovered with pleasure that , above all , aeroplanes can take us from our own city to any corner of the world , and we have enjoyed this so much that we can no longer live without flying . 
ENGLISH However , just as we discovered the congestion of our cities by motor vehicle , it is now airspace which is becoming clogged too frequently . We regularly suffer delays , we lose our luggage and we have suffered all kinds of work - to - rule or trade union strikes . 
ENGLISH We passengers believe that we must establish and defend our rights and manage our airlines , airports , flight timetables and air traffic control better . 
ENGLISH However , we often also think that we have to share the sovereignty of the air more amongst all the Europeans and that there is a large section of the airspace with is reserved which we do not take social advantage of in the way that our times demand . 
ENGLISH Therefore , as well as reforming Eurocontrol , increasing the number of radio communication frequencies and implementing new and better technologies for tracking so that more air corridors and more planes can be fitted in , in these days of normality it is necessary for civil commercial aviation to be able to use the reserved spaces , especially in the highest quotas and highest altitudes , which do not usually have too much military use . 
ENGLISH Mr President , Commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , like the rapporteur and the previous speaker I think we urgently need to take the appropriate measures to tackle and eventually put a stop to the constant increase in delays in European air traffic . 
ENGLISH Sir Robert Atkins , for whose expertise I have enormous regard , and a majority in the Committee on Regional Policy , Transport and Tourism believe the prime way to achieve this objective is through liberalisation measures . 
ENGLISH Liberalisation will without doubt increase the number of providers , but it will not resolve certain problems and will even create new ones . 
ENGLISH Firstly , so long as the Member States give precedence to their justified national interests over the general European interest in regard to the coordination and use of European airspace , we will see no radical changes . 
ENGLISH Secondly , that is another reason for Eurocontrol' - s poor efficiency . 
ENGLISH Thirdly , priority must be given to the civil use of airspace . 
ENGLISH In a peaceful and united Europe there is not one logical reason for reserving a large part of airspace for the military . 
ENGLISH Mr President , Mr Atkins' - report raises a number of real problems in the development of the air travel system in Europe . 
ENGLISH First of all , the matter of safety . 
ENGLISH The strikes that sometimes disrupt traffic take thousands of passengers hostage without proper warning . 
ENGLISH Increasing numbers of intolerable delays are not , as has already been stated , solely due to overcrowding in the sky , but to also the airlines' - attempt , for reasons of cost - effectiveness , to rotate their planes with excessively short , unreasonable and ultimately impossible turnarounds . 
ENGLISH The report , however , omits to bring up one fundamental issue : the issue of traffic rights . 
ENGLISH At the present time , it is extremely difficult for a European company with a line serving , for example , Paris , Houston and San Francisco , to board passengers in California , as this is legally considered as cabotage , whereas an American company serving New York , Madrid or Paris , may board passengers in Spain for disembarkation in Europe . 
ENGLISH It is in the international negotiation of traffic rights that this concept of European air space & # x2026 ; 
ENGLISH ( The President cut the speaker off ) 
ENGLISH Mr President , it has been noted that air transport is increasingly accessible to a greater number of our fellow citizens . 
ENGLISH The desire to create optimum air traffic control in Europe is based on good intentions , but why should the Commission challenge the air policies of the Member States and their bilateral agreements through a single air space ? 
ENGLISH Of course , I agree , on the one hand , with the goal of rationalising the movement of aircraft and , on the other hand , with the goal of aiming for improved traffic flow , while fully respecting consumer protection and passenger safety . 
ENGLISH I would like to believe Mrs Palacio when she assures us that , and I quote , there is - & # x2018 ; no reference to creating competition between air traffic control services or their privatisation in the works of the Commission & # x2019 ; - . 
ENGLISH But in that case , the staff concerned would have no justifiable need of trade unions ? 
ENGLISH The Commission is demanding the advent of a proper air traffic management authority , a strong regulatory authority . I say no . 
ENGLISH No to a complete overhaul of Eurocontrol . 
ENGLISH No to a new regulatory structure -- after all , the current system effectively organises , particularly with regard to safety , a balanced flow of traffic while respecting the national systems which all states are entitled to . No to the Commission representing the Member States with regard to external States , thereby destroying any political decision - making power in the field of air transport . 
ENGLISH Mr President , Madam Vice - President of the Commission , both the Commission' - s communication and the rapporteur' - s report , which is magnificent , are in line with the European Council of Lisbon , which asked the Commission for a series of specific proposals as soon as possible . 
ENGLISH It is now for the Council to take the necessary and urgent political decisions which will allow the single aviation market to be supplemented with a single air traffic control system . 
ENGLISH The growth in demand currently stands at between 5 % and 7 % and it seems that it will follow the same trend over the next few years . This makes it even more difficult for the European air management systems to do their work , since they have shown themselves to be incapable of dealing with this development and they are the cause of 50 % of delays , although it is true that there are other causes , such as the limitations of the airports and flight schedules which do not take account of the limitations of the infrastructures . 
ENGLISH Another cause which makes the current system ineffective is the different organisation of the civil system and the military system , as well as the different standards of technical equipment on the ground . 
ENGLISH However , the mere fact that a crisis may occur does not mean that certain Member States can justify maintaining the conditions which prevailed during the cold war . 
ENGLISH It is necessary for the civil and military controllers in the control centres to work in close cooperation . 
ENGLISH There is a clear need to achieve more effective cooperation between the different users of the airspace , and I believe that that cooperation and a joint approach should be sought at European level . 
ENGLISH Mr Atkins' - report is detailed and balanced , and it presents the current and correct position of this House . 
ENGLISH Lastly , Madam Vice - President , please take note that we are aware of your efforts and we will support you in the line you have taken . 
ENGLISH Mr President , I must express major reservations with regard to the Atkins report as it bears the stamp of commercial interests concealed behind the best of intentions . 
ENGLISH In actual fact , the airlines would like the air traffic control sector to be completely liberalised , not so much for reasons of safety , interoperability or reducing delays as to be able to access a market of air traffic control services that would enable the more powerful among them to purchase more expensive , secure slots and leave the problem of delays to other airlines and private aviation . 
ENGLISH Under cover of a single sky , such liberalisation would actually offer us a multispeed sky . 
ENGLISH I have no other way of explaining the witch hunt undertaken in this report with regard to civil air traffic control alone . 
ENGLISH We all know that this only represents 30 % of delays , which admittedly are worth combating , but which essentially depend on military constraints . 
ENGLISH This is a political problem that depends first and foremost on politicians . 
ENGLISH We all know that the considerable increase in air traffic is the main underlying cause of overcrowded and saturated skies . 
ENGLISH We all know that the number of runways and landing platforms would have to be reduced in order to have any chance of a break , a simple break in the saturation . 
ENGLISH Finally , in my country , the airlines have chosen to set up shuttles that send a dozen low - capacity aircraft from each provincial French town every morning between 6.00 a.m. and 8.30 a.m. to Paris alone . 
ENGLISH Is it the fault of air traffic control if they refuse to allow all these flights to land simultaneously in Paris ? 
ENGLISH These are the fundamental causes of air delays . 
ENGLISH Naturally , the single sky must be set up through a reformed Eurocontrol and harmonised control services at European level . 
ENGLISH However , personally I cannot imagine collective safety services that are dictated by profit alone , controlled by shareholders . 
ENGLISH In addition , I cannot imagine tomorrow' - s single European sky becoming an sky shared unfairly between airlines . 
ENGLISH Commissioner , I hope that , in preparing the future directive on the single sky , the Commission will be able to handle this matter by taking a calmer and more impartial overall view . 
ENGLISH Mr President , I am acting as the representative of the air traffic controllers protesting against the European Commission proposal which , in the name of the attractive slogan - & # x2018 ; single European sky & # x2019 ; - , will clear the way for the privatisation of air traffic control . 
ENGLISH The Atkins report clears the way for the monopoly of private groups that have their eye on air traffic control which , with the increase in traffic , is likely to make money . 
ENGLISH This reports mentions delays , which are , apparently , increasingly frequent . 
ENGLISH But how would subjecting air traffic control to the requirements of private profit possibly put an end to delays ? 
ENGLISH It is precisely the airlines' - quest for profit that has led them to make the choices that cause these delays . 
ENGLISH It is in the interests of passengers and their safety , and in the interests of employees in this sector for air traffic control to remain a public service , dedicated exclusively to ensuring the smooth running of air traffic . 
ENGLISH Competition and the quest for profit in an area as sensitive as air traffic control will inevitably lead to disaster . 
ENGLISH If it is necessary to put an end to national peculiarities with regard to air traffic management , and if it is legitimate to unify the European air space , this must be achieved by rejecting any idea of privatisation , competition , or quest for profitability , and we will vote against this report . 
ENGLISH Mr President , I really must congratulate my colleague , Sir Robert Atkins of the British Conservative Party , on his most excellent report on the Single European Sky . 
ENGLISH This proves beyond doubt that the overarching ambition of the European Union is a single nation with its single national flag , its single national anthem , its single legal space , its single national borders and now the citizens of Europe will soon be able to breath single European air . 
ENGLISH However , after the failure of the single land policy , known as the CAP , the single sea policy , known as the CFP , we can now look forward to a similar failure of the single sky policy . 
ENGLISH Not least , given the number of strikes in air traffic control , I suppose we can now look forward to the single European strike . 
ENGLISH But you have struck a real blow for the Eurosceptic movement in the UK , Sir Robert , I congratulate you . 
ENGLISH Mr President , It is quite true to say that air traffic delays need to be urgently addressed . 
ENGLISH However , it is also worth noting that 33 % of ATM delays recorded between January and June 1999 were mostly due to temporary capacity reductions associated not least with the Kosovo crisis . 
ENGLISH The real problem lies in the sectors straddling areas north and south which include Switzerland , France , Italy , Spain , parts of Germany , Maastricht upper - air space and these are responsible for 44 % air traffic flow management delays and 30 bottlenecks . 
ENGLISH At one time , Greece was part of that problem . 
ENGLISH However , the impressive results by the Greeks goes to show that the improvements can be made if there is strong action and real cooperation by national governments . 
ENGLISH All too often Eurocontrol is used as the scapegoat and is blamed for the present situation , but the real blame must lie with the inaction of national governments in the areas that I have outlined . 
ENGLISH It is quite clear that the European Transport Council must take immediate action to ensure that the air traffic control decisions are applied by all Member States Europe - wide . 
ENGLISH It should be remembered that Eurocontrol is the only pan - European institution in the air traffic management domain and must be supported . 
ENGLISH Finally , one issue that was raised -- the critical shortage of manpower to the tune of 1,000 air traffic controllers throughout Europe -- needs to be urgently addressed by national governments . 
ENGLISH That in itself will go a long way to improving flow control . 
ENGLISH In addition , both airports and airlines need to look closely at their practices , as they too are responsible far too often for the high percentage of delays incurred . 
ENGLISH Mr President , allow me to begin by offering my thanks to the rapporteur , Mr Atkins , for a powerful presentation , to the Commission for making this issue one of its priorities and to the Commissioner responsible , Mrs De Palacio , for daring to translate words into action . 
ENGLISH This has meant that the question of a single air traffic control has , in a short time , come closer to a solution perhaps than ever before . 
ENGLISH Of course , there still remains much to be done . 
ENGLISH In particular , a number of reluctant Member States need to be convinced , but that is precisely why it is so incredibly important for the European Parliament to give the Commission its full support today for the continuation of the work . 
ENGLISH We are , of course , in the middle of yet another chaotic summer for flights . 
ENGLISH The development we are now seeing will result in a doubling of air traffic in the years following 2010 . 
ENGLISH This assumes that we have had the necessary political decisions . 
ENGLISH Otherwise we not only run the risk of congestion in the air leading in the future to 15, 30 or 60 minutes' - delay , which we can perhaps put up with , but are also in danger of no longer being certain of ensuring safety . 
ENGLISH This is something we must never put up with . 
ENGLISH The EU has spent a considerable amount of time and energy on tearing down borders and creating a single market . 
ENGLISH Everyone who travels a mile up in the air -- and we are there quite often -- can nevertheless see that there are borders everywhere . 
ENGLISH The report lays down an extremely tight timetable . 
ENGLISH I share this ambition . 
ENGLISH Let us together ensure that the summer of 2000 is the last summer with chaos in the skies over Europe . 
ENGLISH Mr President , Madam Vice - President of the Commission , ladies and gentlemen , there has hardly ever been such a topical report as this one . 
ENGLISH Just in time before the summer break , when everyone goes on holiday and more and more people also travel by plane , today Parliament is considering questions of air traffic . 
ENGLISH A tiresome subject , as we all know , and as every air traveller finds out . 
ENGLISH We all suffer from delays that often last hours . 
ENGLISH It has now become a daily scene at airports to see every passage - way overcrowded with bored , irritable or even aggressive passengers . 
ENGLISH It happens to us MEPs very frequently , as it does to much of the population during the holidays . 
ENGLISH Let me remind you of another aspect . 
ENGLISH When aircraft cannot land on time , that not only creates a great many personal difficulties for people on business trips who have to keep to their schedules but also produces extra costs and environmental pollution . 
ENGLISH So I welcome the fact that the Commission has submitted a report on these important subjects and that a High Level Group was set up to consider the problems of establishing a single European sky . 
ENGLISH I hope we will have the final results of its inquiries before us in good time in the autumn so that we can then really move on to taking concrete measures jointly with the Commission . 
ENGLISH Safety standards must on no account be endangered . 
ENGLISH That is why we need better airspace control and protection . 
ENGLISH Eurocontrol must satisfy all these safety requirements , but that means we also have to create the necessary framework conditions . 
ENGLISH Thank you very much , Commissioner . 
ENGLISH The debate is closed . 
ENGLISH The vote will take place today at 12 noon . 
ENGLISH Health and safety of pregnant workers 
ENGLISH Thousands of female workers in various countries in the Union have benefited from it , but it is now out of date . 
ENGLISH It is out of date because the 1952 ILO convention has just been revised and there is an expectation that most countries in the world will substantially improve their maternity protection . 
ENGLISH It was and still is , of course , hoped that the Union will continue to be in the vanguard in social terms , in this area as in others . 
ENGLISH But not everything is out of date , because in terms of organisation of work , there have been shortcomings in transposing the directive and even greater shortcomings in implementing it . 
ENGLISH In most countries , the three stages of job organisation are not being respected . These stages are : the employer should adjust the working conditions and / or hours of the worker to avoid exposure to risk ; if that fails , the worker should be moved to another job ; only if neither option is possible should the worker be granted leave , as this reduces the worker' - s income and also her career opportunities . 
ENGLISH By way of example , I must tell you that in some countries , not even a minimum period of recuperation is allowed for the mother , which the experts say should be around 45 days for a normal birth for a woman working in a normal job . 
ENGLISH We think that women must be guaranteed the option of enjoying an appropriate period of maternity leave , which they can share with the father , but that the leave should be assessed and guaranteed according to the risk to her own health . 
ENGLISH Furthermore , this directive does not provide for a link between its own risk assessment provisions and other directives , particularly the framework directive on risk assessment and information for workers . 
ENGLISH Since there is no such link , employment of women is subject to unfair criticism because the costs of maternity - related risks apply exclusively to young women of childbearing age . 
ENGLISH These risks are being underestimated and should not be a matter for the employer or constitute an obligation on the employer only when the woman' - s doctor informs the employer of her condition . 
ENGLISH Firstly , because this is too late : risks from radiation , chemically - charged atmospheres and poor working posture are well known now and all have harmful consequences for the health of the woman and her baby , particularly in the first few weeks . 
ENGLISH An example of this is the extreme temperatures that cause infertility in women and men . 
ENGLISH The Union , which is today in a position to do so , should draw up and implement legislation to this end. With regard to maternity leave , we are aware of the costs to economic activity of proposals to extend this leave . 
ENGLISH We also know that these costs are much higher when employing women , but health specialists recommend that a baby should remain at home for at least five months , protected from the outside world and , above all , growing up in a suitable psychological and emotional environment , which will provide it with the necessary balance for growing up with a sense of security , because it needs its parents . 
ENGLISH Parental leave should therefore be extended , and , if healthily divided between the parents , will benefit them both . 
ENGLISH The directive should also take the informal economy and atypical employment contracts into consideration . 
ENGLISH Finally , I hope that the Commission will tell us what it is intending to do in this area , now that it has an extended legal basis , which includes Article 13 and ex Article 118 . This means that it can certainly cover other aspects mentioned in the report . 
ENGLISH Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , Mrs Damião has drafted a very good report and taken good account in it of my opinion for the Committee on Women' - s Rights and Equal Opportunities . 
ENGLISH It is most important to everyone to improve the health and safety protection at the workplace for women who are pregnant , have recently given birth or are breastfeeding , both to protect the woman and to protect the unborn child . 
ENGLISH This is a general social issue and must be treated with the greatest care . 
ENGLISH The Commission' - s report on the 1992 directive is only concerned with the technical transposition of the directive and does not look at the situation at the workplace , which has to some extent changed , or at the changed role of women in society . 
ENGLISH The number of single parents has risen and women are more concerned with achieving economic independence . 
ENGLISH The Commission must submit a proposal for revision of the directive that takes account of all these changes , and it must do so as quickly as possible , this very year . 
ENGLISH There is a considerable need to improve the legislation . 
ENGLISH That applies to preventive health protection measures at the workplace for the mother and for the unborn child . 
ENGLISH Here we must avoid any risks . 
ENGLISH Any activity that puts their health at risk should without exception be prohibited . 
ENGLISH Periods allowed for breastfeeding should be regulated and there should be facilities for breastfeeding at the workplace . 
ENGLISH Maternity leave after the birth of the child should be at least eight weeks . 
ENGLISH There must be clear rules on financial support , both for the period of pregnancy leave and for maternity leave . 
ENGLISH None of these necessary provisions must lead to discrimination against women or to a reduction of their chances of access to the workplace . 
ENGLISH Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , today we are debating the implementation of Council Directive 92 / 85 / EEC of 19 October 1992, which is one of the most important directives in the field of the technical and health protection of workers . 
ENGLISH I well remember its genesis and the problems that were discussed at the time . 
ENGLISH A positive aspect is that at that time , irrespective of the dispute about the legal basis , its importance to women workers in the single market was recognised and a first step was taken towards establishing minimum standards for the protection of pregnant workers and new mothers . 
ENGLISH The Commission report before us continues to show up weaknesses in the implementation of the directive , which means we must increase our efforts to establish the protection of women during a special period of their life in law and in practice . 
ENGLISH Really it is very sad for a society to find we have to pay much greater attention to this area in particular . 
ENGLISH So I support the call to revise the directive as soon as possible . 
ENGLISH Some of the demands that will have to be incorporated in a proposal for a revision of the directive are set out in the draft amendments before us , and the PPE Group can therefore support at least some of them . 
ENGLISH First and foremost , they include the call for a strict prohibition on dismissal during pregnancy and maternity leave , safeguards to ensure that on expiry of their leave the women will be reinstated in their job or given a comparable one and effective penalties for those who infringe that prohibition . 
ENGLISH For women who want to or have to reconcile working life and motherhood , anything else would mean penalising or unjustifiably discriminating against them in their occupational and private life . 
ENGLISH Seen in these terms , the effective protection of pregnant workers and new mothers is one of the most important contributions to an active family policy . 
ENGLISH With a view to eastward enlargement and protection in those countries , let me also point out that the single market must not lead to discrimination against pregnant women and new mothers . 
ENGLISH Madam President , Commissioner , I would like to start by thanking the rapporteur for her thorough , responsible and unreserved report . 
ENGLISH This is an extremely sensitive issue which is closely related to other matters which are regularly referred to such as the ageing population , the demographic trend , the low birth rate , the right to health , the right to work , the right to motherhood and the social value of motherhood . This matter cannot be viewed as affecting women alone : they must be protected and supported by society . 
ENGLISH The 1992 directive , whose implementation in the Member States we are assessing today , is intended precisely to introduce minimum measures to encourage the improvement of the health and safety of pregnant women and women who have recently given birth and are breastfeeding . 
ENGLISH The Commission 's evaluation report shows that the directive has proved its utility in that it has been of some benefit in a number of Member States in certain areas of the issue , such as leave on grounds of health and safety , etc. However , apart from these points , which are of a general nature , we share the rapporteur 's criticism of the Commission 's report . 
ENGLISH This report was overdue and limited almost exclusively to dealing with legal and technical transposition . 
ENGLISH There is a lack of concrete statistics and data on vital aspects of the directive , such as the monitoring of workplace risk assessment for pregnant workers and the frequency of work - related accidents and illnesses , and satisfactory information is not provided on the coordination of legislative adaptation of specialist inspection , penalties or scientific research for the detection , prevention , elimination and recuperation of professional hazards relating to pregnancy . 
ENGLISH We feel that there has been a lack of serious monitoring on the part of the Commission . There has been a lack of coordination between the health and safety directorate and the equal opportunities unit , and the ambiguity of the directive itself in this area has become apparent . 
ENGLISH In addition to taking all the necessary compatibilities into consideration , when they revise the directive , the Commission and the Member States should be motivated by the principle of non - discrimination and the recognition of motherhood and fatherhood as fundamental rights which are essential for a balanced society . 
ENGLISH Mr President , it is important that women have good and secure conditions during pregnancy and childbirth so that mother and child have a good start , and it is important that pregnancy and childbirth do not reduce women' - s opportunities in the labour market . 
ENGLISH We have a directive from 1992 which establishes minimum rights for maternity leave and women' - s entitlements to financial compensation when they are absent from the labour market due to childbirth . 
ENGLISH The Commission has now investigated the Member States' - implementation of this directive and , in her report , Mrs Damião quite correctly points out that the Commission' - s report contains only a technical and factual assessment of the directive' - s implementation and does not provide an evaluation of whether the directive in practice provides pregnant women or women who have just given birth with better conditions . 
ENGLISH I do not think we should demand a new draft directive which contains the right to a longer period of leave , together with demands for longer enforced leave , and which lays down more detailed requirements for financial compensation in a way that does not take the necessary account of the differences between the Member States' - social systems . 
ENGLISH The existing rules make for great flexibility , and most countries guarantee women better conditions than the common regulations require . 
ENGLISH In any case , maternity leave and financial aid ought to be given priority in the individual countries . 
ENGLISH However , I think it would be a good idea to obtain a better overview of what the circumstances are in the different countries so that governments can learn from each other' - s good and bad experiences and inspire each other . 
ENGLISH Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , the European Commission is required to submit a directive proposal on measures for workers during pregnancy , birth and breastfeeding by the end of 2000 . 
ENGLISH The assessment of the existing measures , which was intended to lead to change , is four years behind schedule and fails to meet the requirements which the European Parliament prescribed at the time . 
ENGLISH The Group of the Greens / European Free Alliance calls for an increase in the level of protection . 
ENGLISH In our opinion , this report should also embrace the right to return back to work to the same or an equivalent job after maternity leave . 
ENGLISH We are asking for the rights of pregnant and breastfeeding women to be extended . 
ENGLISH In practice , women are often discriminated against during this period , despite rights on paper . 
ENGLISH This is why we call for a reversal of the burden of proof . 
ENGLISH Employers will need to demonstrate that any dismissal or change of job is not linked to pregnancy . 
ENGLISH Finally , we would like the Commission to explain why at the recent ILO conference , the Member States failed to adopt the common positions . 
ENGLISH How is it possible that the United Kingdom abstained from the final vote , which , in view of the procedure , is tantamount to voting against ? 
ENGLISH We would like to close by thanking Mrs Damião for the work she has carried out . 
ENGLISH Mr President , at a time when Europe , with the Beijing + 5 Conference in New York , is emphasising its pioneering role in the implementation of the principle of equality between men and women , it seems equally important to guarantee their freedom . 
ENGLISH This freedom is achieved through a right to specific protection for women , a right that is always related to their bodies , in particular to maternity and , more specifically , pregnancy . 
ENGLISH We are therefore pleased with Mrs Damião' - s excellent report , which highlights the urgent need to revise the 1992 directive . 
ENGLISH Her request for a formal ban on dismissal during pregnancy is essential , and I will dwell only on this point . 
ENGLISH It seems to me to be dangerous to allow employers any leeway in this field , as they will always use it to their advantage . 
ENGLISH Today , with the revision of Convention 103, the ILO is levelling down the protection of pregnant women , by accepting certain dismissals that are said to be unrelated to pregnancy . 
ENGLISH Europe , with Mrs Damião' - s report and the revision of the directive , has a duty to be a political reference for women' - s rights world - wide . 
ENGLISH Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , I should like to start by congratulating Mrs Damião on the magnificent job she has done on this report . We were happy to contribute to this in committee , not only by giving the report our total support , but also by adding some amendments that were accepted in the final version . 
ENGLISH We consider the approval of this report to be a significant event as we approach the summer recess , for four fundamental reasons . 
ENGLISH Firstly , we think it is unacceptable that women should suffer social prejudice or discrimination because of pregnancy or maternity issues ; 
ENGLISH Secondly , because we must more vigorously tackle risks to the health of mother and child associated with working conditions ; 
ENGLISH Thirdly , the idea of reconciling personal and professional lives , the family and work , in modern society is becoming increasingly important to those of us concerned about people' - s day - to - day lives . 
ENGLISH This is precisely one of those key areas in which a responsible approach to reconciling these interests is called for ; 
ENGLISH Fourthly , because maternity policies must be consistent with family and childbirth policies generally , particularly at a time when the crisis resulting from Europe' - s ageing population is increasingly drawing Member States' - attention to this issue . 
ENGLISH Nevertheless , we will not support all of the amendments , because we feel that this balance is actually preferable to some of the steps suggested in the amendments . 
ENGLISH We shall support the amendments suggested by our British Conservative colleagues , such as Mr Bushill - Matthews , who drew our attention to the issue of small - and medium - sized enterprises , which we feel must be taken into account when legislation is adopted , whether at Community or national level . 
ENGLISH On the other hand , however , we hope that the British Conservatives will back the report , because although it is true that some of the Portuguese Presidency' - s conclusions highlight this issue , I must emphasise that paragraph 36 of the final Feira Summit text stresses the importance of companies' - sense of social responsibility . 
ENGLISH For us Portuguese Christian - Democrats and Conservatives , this is a very important idea . We believe that companies also have a certain social responsibility , which they should build upon . 
ENGLISH I would just like to add that we wish certain votes to be held separately , as a means of improving the report , some points in which strike us as rather obscure . 
ENGLISH We do not view pregnancy as a social resource and there is one other point on which we would like to see a separate vote in order to improve the report . 
ENGLISH Lastly , I would urge all Christian - Democrat Members to endorse this report by my Socialist colleague . 
ENGLISH Mr President , I wish at this point to express my disappointment at the Commission' - s failure to adopt any position on the revision , assessment and notification of Directive 92 / 85 on maternity protection as yet . 
ENGLISH Nevertheless , although I wish to highlight the considerable harm that this omission has caused to mothers , every cloud has a silver lining , and this report , which has been brilliantly drafted by Mrs Damião , is proof of that such silver linings exist . This report will enable the European Parliament to move ahead now . 
ENGLISH It specifically notes the rights of women working independently or as teleworkers , and highlights the growing concern about single parents , who are becoming increasingly common in Europe . 
ENGLISH The aim of extending maternity leave to twenty weeks is an ambitious one , which is recommended from a technical point of view , and must gradually be implemented . We must therefore prepare ourselves for this in economic terms , by sharing out responsibilities through cooperation between states and employers' - and workers' - organisations . 
ENGLISH In order to achieve the aims that are being proposed , it is also crucial for us to encourage greater dialogue , collaboration and coordination between specialists in health , hygiene and safety at work , so that a more suitable working environment can be provided for pregnant women . 
ENGLISH The European Community must strive to gain the support of applicant countries to ensure that awareness is raised as rapidly as possible , so that the measures recommended in this report can be adopted , since there may be greater resistance in those countries , which could be difficult to overcome . 
ENGLISH Lastly , I wish to sound a warning about point 9 of this report , because measures for protecting new mothers , such as very long maternity leave , may have unwanted effects , as it may become disadvantageous for employers to employ women , and they may consequently prefer to take on men . 
ENGLISH The Commission must therefore create a system for detecting fraud and for applying harsh penalties to companies practising this kind of discrimination . 
ENGLISH Mr President , adopting a directive does not necessarily mean that reality is as we would wish it . 
ENGLISH We have a good example of this here . 
ENGLISH According to the Commission' - s assessment , the situation regarding the health and safety of pregnant women looks fine , but that is certainly only on paper , for is that also the way it looks in reality ? 
ENGLISH I am not so sure . 
ENGLISH The pace in the labour market is more hectic than ever . Great efficiency is demanded , and women are supposed to work as if they were not pregnant , even if they are . 
ENGLISH It is stressful , and it is unhealthy both for the pregnant woman and the foetus . 
ENGLISH We know this , because investigations have proven this to be the case . 
ENGLISH The European Parliament and ourselves as representatives of the people are entitled to know whether the legislation we adopt also actually works in practice . 
ENGLISH The message from Parliament to the Commission should therefore be that the work which has been done is not good enough . 
ENGLISH It needs to be re - done . 
ENGLISH We must know whether the legislation is working . 
ENGLISH I think there is a greater need to discover what suitable protection consists in , and there should be stricter rules governing dismissal during pregnancy . 
ENGLISH The Commission must go back to the drawing board , set to work again and table the necessary proposals . 
ENGLISH The European social model is characterised by the fact that we have a high level of protection . 
ENGLISH This should be an area -- and this remark is aimed at the Liberal Group which has adopted a very different view -- in which the EU should have a big influence . 
ENGLISH It should not be left to the individual Member States . 
ENGLISH Women' - s participation in the labour market is a prerequisite of our achieving the ambitious goals we have set ourselves regarding employment and the modernisation of the European social model . 
ENGLISH They cannot be left to the Member States . Europe as a whole needs to attend to these issues . 
ENGLISH Mr President , many women are discriminated against today in their workplaces . 
ENGLISH We know that many lose their jobs when they become pregnant . 
ENGLISH This is completely unacceptable ! 
ENGLISH The Damião report contains many good proposals , but we in the Swedish Liberal Party still have fundamental objections to the report . 
ENGLISH I would like to say to my predecessor , who spoke just a moment ago , that , in this Parliament , we ought more often to ask ourselves the question : What should the European Parliament actually be doing ? 
ENGLISH How much detail should we go into ? 
ENGLISH We believe in the subsidiarity principle , i.e. that decisions should be taken as close as possible to the people they affect . 
ENGLISH Social policy is an area where the EU ought to have limited jurisdiction , except when it is a question of free movement for citizens within the Union . 
ENGLISH Every Member State should have full responsibility and the right to make its own decisions regarding its social security systems . 
ENGLISH Maternity / paternity leave and maternity / paternity benefit are examples of issues that are not directly transnational . 
ENGLISH We do not believe in detailed common European social legislation . 
ENGLISH This does not , however , prevent Member States from cooperating and sharing ideas concerning social issues . 
ENGLISH The Damião report contains an amalgam of legitimate demands for proper security for women workers throughout Europe , demands for greater freedom of movement and a better functioning single market and demands for the national right of decision on the details of the socio - political system . 
ENGLISH In this connection , the report contains an imbalance . 
ENGLISH My final question is : Why should the European Parliament decide that every woman in the whole of Europe must have eight weeks off work when she has had a child ? 
ENGLISH Mr President , Mrs - Damião , the author of this report , is justified in her criticisms of the Commission as regards the delay in revising the current directive . 
ENGLISH The report quite rightly laments the Commission' - s failure to comply with the timetable set by the directive and the fact that there has been no assessment of how effectively the directive has been implemented . The report stresses the need for a proposal for an urgent revision of the directive , and suggests inclusion of various measures , which we essentially support and agree with . 
ENGLISH As a matter of fact , in the discussions held in the Parliamentary committees , we tabled various amendments designed to guarantee the statutory right to take breaks from work for breastfeeding , to ensure non - discrimination in the workplace against pregnant women and women who have just given birth or who are breastfeeding , particularly in terms of salary , and to guarantee career progression and employment , with particular emphasis on the situation of working women who have temporary or atypical contracts . 
ENGLISH In general , the amendments were accepted , with the exception of the amendment on the payment of allowances during time off work and maternity leave , which must be equivalent to 100 % of the previous salary and be taken into account for the purposes of calculating pension entitlements . 
ENGLISH I hope that Parliament will adopt this amendment . 
ENGLISH Mr President , if the Commission 's intention was to improve the effective health and safety of pregnant workers and workers who have recently given birth , it may be said that it has not achieved its goal . 
ENGLISH The report has two clear shortcomings : firstly , the fact that it is overdue and secondly , its limitations . 
ENGLISH It could have been finished as far back as 1997, but even though it is late , it could at least have clarified the wording of certain articles of the directive and defined the many undefined concepts which have given rise to numerous interpretations . 
ENGLISH Among the various missing data which would have been useful , it could also have provided the results of the questionnaires sent to the Member States and the results of the coordination of relevant laws and activities by the European Standardisation Centre . 
ENGLISH The European Parliament recognised the need to revise the directive as early as 1992, with the result that now , given the need for a social market economy , it agrees with the objectives of Mrs Damião 's report : to link maternity policies to family policy and to remove ambiguity by practically and quantifiably enhancing the rights of pregnant workers and workers who have recently given birth . 
ENGLISH Mr President , Madam Vice - President of the Commission , the incorporation of women into the labour market means that at some time their working life will coincide with a pregnancy , which sometimes means that they are obliged to take additional leave so as not to endanger their own health or the health of the unborn child . 
ENGLISH Society must care for working women in particular by ensuring that they remain in their jobs . 
ENGLISH The incorporation of women into the workplace is a reality which cannot be reversed and women cannot be put in a situation of having to chose between having children and keeping their job because of the complications which a pregnancy may entail . 
ENGLISH The ageing of the population , together with the low birth - rate in the European Union , means that this is an issue of enormous importance for all social operators . 
ENGLISH As important as the protection of pregnant women is provision for breast - feeding , which is beneficial to the health of both mother and child . 
ENGLISH The protection of maternity and breast - feeding cannot be considered as a form of unequal treatment between men and women , since maternity is exclusive to women and it is women who must be protected , independently of the fact that some parental leave can be granted to men . 
ENGLISH The directive must include a minimum leave of 20 weeks , with an obligatory period of at least eight weeks after giving birth . 
ENGLISH A minimum salary of 80 % must be guaranteed , with no loss of pension rights . 
ENGLISH The ban on dismissal during pregnancy must be strictly complied with . 
ENGLISH In no circumstances must pregnancy be a cause for discrimination against women . 
ENGLISH The Committee on Women' - s Rights and Equal Opportunities unanimously condemns the delay on the part of the Commission , which is even more serious given that it extends from 1992 to 2000, which is the period in which there have been the most changes in terms of women' - s access to work . 
ENGLISH Furthermore , we believe that this deficiency in the legislation may be exacerbating a very serious phenomenon , that is , the rejection by young people of motherhood . 
ENGLISH We ask the Commission , before the end of 2000, to present an amendment of Directive 92 / 85 / EEC and that that directive be applicable to all pregnant workers , in all areas and occupations , with no exceptions or conditions . 
ENGLISH The new legislation must be clear and progressive . 
ENGLISH It must provide for new working situations and also the new family situation of single parent families . 
ENGLISH The pregnant worker must be provided with adequate protection , which is designed for their specific circumstances , but this should not mean discrimination or a reduction in their work opportunities , but quite the opposite . 
ENGLISH We must be able to provide the means for breast - feeding to be compatible with work . 
ENGLISH Mr President , the Commission report , which I have read in great detail , says : " In general terms Directive 92 / 85 / EEC has been well implemented by the Member States and this is reflected in the low level of complaints about the rights of pregnant workers received by the Commission " . 
ENGLISH I like some of the suggestions in her report . 
ENGLISH But in general it is not a health and safety agenda . 
ENGLISH It is very much a traditional socialist agenda . 
ENGLISH Firstly , her report aims to harmonise social policy across the EU rather than leave the detail to Member States -- a point made with great force by Mr Olle Schmidt earlier in this debate . 
ENGLISH Secondly , it wants to improve the terms and conditions of employment for pregnant workers and new mothers by way of extra maternity leave and specified minimum pay levels . 
ENGLISH Neither of these are really health and safety issues . 
ENGLISH She is proposing solutions for which there is no health and safety problem . 
ENGLISH As British Conservatives we confirm our concern about health and safety for all workers , especially vulnerable groups . 
ENGLISH We confirm our commitment to subsidiarity regarding terms and conditions of employment . 
ENGLISH But we also confirm our concern to help more women into jobs rather than putting up further barriers to female employment . 
ENGLISH Hence we urge the House to reject the report . 
ENGLISH It seems to me that , in this proposal for a revision of the directive that we are asking the Commission to present quickly , it is essential to preserve the reality of three fundamental principles for women and their well - being : the prohibition of dismissal for pregnant women or women on maternity leave , the right to a mandatory minimum leave and allowance during this leave to be taken into account for the purposes of acquiring pension entitlements . 
ENGLISH With regard to high - risk pregnancies and the birth of disabled children , it is obvious that provision must be made for specially adapted proposals offering an extension of the length of maternity leave , taking account of the specifics of the case . 
ENGLISH As far as definition of the allowance is concerned , it seems that the figure to be considered must be at least 80 % of the previous salary , and that includes for purposes of acquiring pension entitlements . 
ENGLISH Finally , it is recommended that this text should correlate and reinforce the formal prohibition of dismissal during pregnancy and maternity leave . 
ENGLISH Mr President , my compliments to the rapporteur for her work on protecting women during pregnancy and maternity , a particularly difficult time . 
ENGLISH This report certainly represents progress , not just for women in general but also in that it safeguards family rights and upholds fundamental values . 
ENGLISH The European People 's Party has always upheld the concept of the family , the basic unit of society , as the basis for European construction and the Christian values from which it stems require that it be respected . 
ENGLISH At a time when Europe has demographic problems , the institutions need to issue a firm signal to reassure working women , who have to have sufficient peace of mind and the necessary guarantees to be able to opt for motherhood . 
ENGLISH This is why it is necessary to have a sufficiently long period of rest from work before giving birth and even longer afterwards , when there is a child to breastfeed , look after and bring up . 
ENGLISH Therefore , benefits should not be cut considerably during this period and pension funds should not be affected either . 
ENGLISH Finally , I would like to express my support for maintaining the prohibition on dismissal of women during this period , and also for the fact that the cost of benefits for workers on maternity leave are not borne directly by the company where the woman works but entirely by the State , in order to avoid discrimination and penalising women in the labour market . 
ENGLISH Mr President , I would firstly like to thank Mrs Damião for her magnificent report , despite the fact that it contains a series of criticisms of the Commission' - s actions . 
ENGLISH I must accept these criticisms since they are true and are based on real facts . 
ENGLISH However , I must offer a justification and an explanation . 
ENGLISH In order to produce this text , the Commission has had to rely on documentation provided by the different Member States and , unfortunately , that documentation has not been provided with all the speed and efficiency which the Commission would have liked . 
ENGLISH That is the reason for the delay in presentation . 
ENGLISH The Commission obviously fully shares the Parliament' - s interest in improving the protection of pregnant workers and those who have recently given birth . 
ENGLISH The Community legislation and the jurisprudence of the European Court of Justice still do not offer a sufficient framework although they are undoubtedly key elements to making further progress in this aspect which is essential to safeguarding the rights of pregnant workers . 
ENGLISH Directive 92 / 85 was adopted before the Treaty of Amsterdam . 
ENGLISH We believe that it is now , after the Treaty , that we will be able to go further and take some steps forward . 
ENGLISH That is what we propose and to this end we are going to prepare a supplementary report on the implementation of this directive , which we will present in 2002 . 
ENGLISH As the honourable Members know well , the Commission last week approved its new social agenda for 2000 - 2005 and it is within this framework that we hope to offer an adequate solution , not only to this specific problem , but also to a whole series of other issues . 
ENGLISH Mr President , this is the last time this week that the House will be meeting in such great numbers . 
ENGLISH This Parliament' - s reputation with the press is excellent , because for the past twenty years , Parliament has managed to issue press releases for the written press twice a day . 
ENGLISH This previous system has now been changed . 
ENGLISH I had a brief look to see how the system worked this week . 
ENGLISH The press release to commemorate former President Pflimlin did not appear until 11.22 p.m. on Monday evening . 
ENGLISH The report on the Feira Summit was issued on Tuesday morning , the report on Tuesday morning' - s discharge sitting was issued at 9.12 p.m. The report on Zimbabwe , Tuesday afternoon , was issued at 10.55 p.m. The report on the European Central Bank on Wednesday morning was issued at 8.00 p.m. the same day . 
ENGLISH This kind of reporting is not really of much use at all to the written press . 
ENGLISH At that time of the day , editorial staff have gone home and we are , in a way , generating old news . 
ENGLISH I would ask you , Mr President , to revert back to the old system and to ensure that the press releases , the daily press releases , not only appear on time , but also afford a general overview -- in a decentralised manner -- for each language . 
ENGLISH I would ask you to request the Bureau to think about this very carefully and reconsider their decision . 
ENGLISH Mr President , on a point of order , I am sorry to delay the House when I know there is a large amount of voting to go on . 
ENGLISH I have just discovered from my agenda that the vote on my own report is to be taken last . 
ENGLISH I have not been consulted about this . 
ENGLISH Indeed I indicated earlier that this needed to be taken as early as possible in the voting because -- and as one of those involved in aviation , I know this better than most -- I have only got one flight to get me home . 
ENGLISH And so I am stuck ! 
ENGLISH I have taken note of your request . 
ENGLISH That would be something else ! 
ENGLISH We shall now proceed to the vote . 
ENGLISH Vote 
ENGLISH Mr President , as you have said , we will be voting on the compromise motions agreed in an informal conciliation procedure with the Commission . 
ENGLISH By adopting this procedure vis - à - vis the Commission , Parliament has once again expressed our resolve also to achieve full codecision in the Committee on Agriculture and in relation to agriculture . 
ENGLISH We have achieved it by adopting this procedure for the case in point . 
ENGLISH I want to thank the Commission for its cooperation in this regard and I hope the compromises we have reached will also gain the kind of support from the Council and the Commission that means they can only be rejected unanimously . 
ENGLISH So the Commission and Parliament have jointly managed to establish a very strong position and I hope that will also serve as an example to the Intergovernmental Conference in Nice . 
ENGLISH Mr President , Commissioners , ladies and gentlemen , I really want to give warm thanks , not just to the Commission but also to all those involved , to all my colleagues on the Committee on Agriculture , for enabling us jointly to achieve this compromise ! 
ENGLISH I would ask you to adopt this document today , because otherwise the Council would be able to take a decision on 16 and 17 July without having Parliament' - s opinion , since we would not be cooperating as faithfully as we should according to a European Court of Justice ruling . 
ENGLISH So I would ask that we adopt this document today . 
ENGLISH Once again , many thanks for your cooperation ! 
ENGLISH Commissioner , would you like to respond to the question ? 
ENGLISH Commission. -- ( DE ) Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , just a few brief comments . 
ENGLISH I confirm that the Commission accepts 12 of the 13 compromise amendments . 
ENGLISH But in terms of substance , the Commission will support them during the discussion with the Council . 
ENGLISH Regarding Amendment No 51, the Commission takes note of the committee' - s concern about the level of support for long fibres but must just point out again that obviously it will be impossible to evaluate the situation in full if a report has to be drawn up on it only a year after the reform . 
ENGLISH On behalf of my colleague Mr Fischler and the Commission , let me thank you for your cooperation . I believe that the compromise proposals that have been achieved have helped improve the text and above all , of course , have helped take the situation forwards . 
ENGLISH ( Parliament adopted the legislative resolution ) 
ENGLISH eport without debate ( A5 - 0182 / 2000 ) by Mrs Stauner , on behalf of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs , on the draft Guidelines for the various types of innovative measures in the context of Article 22 of General Regulation ( EC ) No 1260 / 1999 of 21 June 1999 -- Innovative Measures under Article 6 of the ESF Regulation [ C5 - 235 / 2000 -- 2000 / 2127 ( COS ) ] 
ENGLISH ( Parliament adopted the draft resolution ) 
ENGLISH < / P > eport ( A5 - 0183 / 2000 ) by Mr Bourlanges , on behalf of the Committee on Budgets , on draft supplementary and amending budget No 1 to the budget of the European Communities for the 2000 financial year [ C5 - 0314 / 2000 ] 
ENGLISH ( Parliament adopted the resolution ) 
ENGLISH * * * < / P > eport ( A5 - 0192 / 2000 ) by Mr Virrankoski , on behalf of the Committee on budgets , on draft supplementary and amending budget No 2 to the budget of the European Communities for the 2000 financial year [ C5 - 0342 / 2000 ] 
ENGLISH ( Parliament adopted the resolution ) 
ENGLISH * * * < / P > eport ( A5 - 0190 / 2000 ) by Mrs Stauner , on behalf of the Committee on Budgetary Control , on giving discharge to the Commission in respect of implementation of the general budget of the European Union for the 1998 financial year [ SEC ( 1999 ) 412 -- C5 - 0006 / 1999 -- 1999 / 2050 ( DEC ) ] 
ENGLISH ( Parliament adopted the resolution ) 
ENGLISH ( Parliament adopted the resolution ) 
ENGLISH Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , I regret having to take the floor in regard to Mr Kuhne' - s report , but this concerns a very serious course of events . 
ENGLISH This report , which is about the discharge of Parliament' - s 1998 budget , as you all know , contains a paragraph 18 and a sixth indent . 
ENGLISH This sixth indent concerns our group . 
ENGLISH There was an agreement -- and all the group chairmen will confirm this -- between the group chairmen that we would not address concrete cases relating to individual groups in the report , but that in future we will jointly endeavour to tackle any problems that may arise . 
ENGLISH So in view of the wording in the report , I tabled a compromise amendment on behalf of my group , and it was indicated to me a few days ago that the rapporteur would approve that compromise . 
ENGLISH We thereupon refrained from tabling an amendment that also refers to problems in regard to the Socialist Group . 
ENGLISH I now hear that the Socialist Group evidently will not endorse our Amendment No 10, tabled in my name . 
ENGLISH Let me state quite plainly , in all seriousness and with great regret , that this means the agreement between group chairmen was given up . 
ENGLISH Fair play was given up ! Let me also say that our group is disappointed , not just I personally but the entire group . 
ENGLISH ( Applause from the PPE - DE Group ) 
ENGLISH Mr Poettering , as you are aware , explanations of vote are made after the vote . 
ENGLISH We cannot start a debate now , even if the matter is an extremely sensitive issue . 
ENGLISH Yes , Mr President , I note that the law is not equal for all , because I wanted to speak along the same lines , in the previous sitting , on the resolution on Feira , and I was not given the authorisation to do so , and I did it at the right time in the end. I remember that there was a general row , in those benches , calling for the Rules of Procedure to be respected . 
ENGLISH This has not been the case today . 
ENGLISH On behalf of my group , I would like to point out that it is absolutely unacceptable , firstly , that a non - existent agreement be cited , and secondly that my group be threatened . 
ENGLISH It makes no sense to put conditions on other people' - s votes . 
ENGLISH I accept that one can defend one' - s positions , but what is not acceptable is that , in this action , before the vote , my group should be threatened in relation to an issue which has been voted on by the Committee on Budgetary Control , with the votes , also , of the Members on those benches . 
ENGLISH Furthermore , and I will end , Mr President , by saying that there is no mention by name of any group in the Kuhne report . 
ENGLISH I recommend to Mr Poettering that he reads the report carefully . 
ENGLISH ( Applause from the PSE Group ) 
ENGLISH Amendments Nos 1, 2, 3 and 5 propose deleting the obligation to indicate the category of animal on the labelling . 
ENGLISH There have already been discussions about the definition of the category in the Management Committee and the Commission is confident that solutions will be found that satisfy the majority , if not indeed all of the Member States . 
ENGLISH The Commission therefore believes it is crucial to introduce the provisions on labelling on 1 September . 
ENGLISH To open up the whole debate again would delay their entry into force . 
ENGLISH Then the amendments could not be adopted . 
ENGLISH So the Commission sees no reason to adopt that amendment and it is also against adopting Amendment No 6 . 
ENGLISH Yet I would point out , on behalf of the Commission , that it is possible even now to indicate the date of the minced meat production under the simplified , voluntary procedure . 
ENGLISH Let me also point out again that Mr Fischler stated yesterday that after the discussions in Parliament at first reading , a large majority of amendments were adopted and have now been incorporated in the text . 
ENGLISH ( The President declared the common position approved as amended ) 
ENGLISH ecommendation for second reading ( A5 - 0165 / 2000 ) , on behalf of the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer policy , on the common position adopted by the Council with a view to the adoption of a European Parliament and Council regulation allowing voluntary participation by organisations in a Community Eco - Management and Audit Scheme ( EMAS ) [ 10677 / 2 / 1999 -- C5 - 0098 / 2000 -- 1998 / 0303 ( COD ) ] ( Rapporteur : Mrs García - Orcoyen Tormo ) 
ENGLISH Commission. -- ( DE ) The Commission can accept Amendments Nos 1, 2 and 19 ( third part ) . 
ENGLISH Amendments Nos 3, 4, 16, 19 ( fourth part ) , 22, 25, 30 ( of which the first and third part ) . 
ENGLISH It accepts Amendments Nos 32 and 33 ( second part ) in principle . 
ENGLISH The Commission cannot accept the other amendments . 
ENGLISH Following Amendment No 49 
ENGLISH Mr President , in order to make this Amendment No 41 acceptable to the PPE Group and the Liberals , I suggest the following oral amendment : replace - & # x2018 ; the active involvement of the workers and their representatives & # x2019 ; - with - & # x2018 ; the involvement of the workers and their representatives in the organisation & # x2019 ; - . 
ENGLISH ( The President declared the common position approved as amended ) 
ENGLISH ecommendation for second reading ( A5 - 0166 / 2000 ) , on behalf of the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Policy on the common position established by the Council with a view to the adoption of a European Parliament and Council directive relating to limit values for benzene and carbon monoxide in ambient air [ 5860 / 1 / 2000 -- C5 - 0182 / 2000 -- 1998 / 0333 ( COD ) ] ( Rapporteur : Mrs Breyer ) 
ENGLISH Commission. -- ( DE ) The Commission cannot accept Amendment 4 . 
ENGLISH It accepts Amendments 5 and 6 in principle and Amendments 2 and 3 in full . 
ENGLISH Amendments Nos 5 and 6 are not here . 
ENGLISH . -- ( DE ) Mr President , I apologise again for my mistake a moment ago ! 
ENGLISH Secondly , if the proposal is worded as a recommendation , the Commission could also accept Amendments Nos 2, 10 ( of which the second part ) and 15 ( second part ) in relation to paragraph 9 . 
ENGLISH ( The President declared the common position approved as amended ) 
ENGLISH uropean Council of 19 / 20 June 2000 at Santa Maria da Feira 
ENGLISH Motion for a resolution ( B5 - 0583 / 2000 ) 
ENGLISH ( Parliament rejected the motion for a resolution ) 
ENGLISH Motion for a resolution ( B5 - 0585 / 2000 ) 
ENGLISH ( Parliament adopted the resolution ) < / P > oint motion for a resolution on the European Union observer delegation monitoring the elections in Zimbabwe 
ENGLISH ( Parliament adopted the resolution ) 
ENGLISH < / P > rafficking in human beings 
ENGLISH Motion for a resolution B5 - 0595 / 2000 on illegal immigration and the discovery of the bodies of 58 illegal immigrants in Dover 
ENGLISH ( Parliament rejected the motion for a resolution ) < / P > - oint motion for a resolution 
ENGLISH Mr President , as a people' - s representative I believe it is important for us to stand by what we have signed . 
ENGLISH Of course it is not particularly pleasant in terms of our parliamentary activities to have to withdraw something suddenly . 
ENGLISH That is why we have withdrawn our signature . 
ENGLISH I ask you to take note of that . 
ENGLISH resident. -- In view of the time , voting time will be suspended now and resumed at 5.30 p.m . 
ENGLISH Mr President , I respect your decision . 
ENGLISH But may I point out that it is extremely thoughtless to vote on legislation -- and the next report is a legislative report -- on a Thursday afternoon in July ! 
ENGLISH Consequently , if we wanted to deal with them all in the same way we would have had to have extended voting time well beyond 2 p.m. , and we cannot do that . 
ENGLISH In any case , we usually vote when there is a room available and not when there is not . 
ENGLISH Voting time is suspended . 
ENGLISH EXPLANATIONS OF VOTE * * * 
ENGLISH Please convey that to the Commissioner please , as she is not listening at the moment . 
ENGLISH Schierhuber report ( A5 - 0124 / 2000 ) 
ENGLISH . -- ( EL ) There are serious reservations regarding the proposal to amend Regulation EC No 1251 / 1999 on flax and hemp grown for fibre because of the unfair allocation of quotas between the Member States . 
ENGLISH Countries with an important agricultural sector and a high rate of employment in agriculture , such as Greece , have been given the lowest quota limit , for both flax and hemp . 
ENGLISH We should like to take this opportunity to stress the need for an awareness campaign in the Member States in order to overcome ignorance and educate the public about hemp grown for fibre ; in Greece , for example , shops selling hemp fibre have been shut down by the police and small undertakings have gone out of business . 
ENGLISH Stauner report ( A5 - 0182 / 2000 ) 
ENGLISH Mr President , pensioners and elderly people are in favour of innovation , even though it may appear otherwise , and so , as representative of the Pensioners' Party , I cannot help but support the inclusion of any rules leading to innovative measures when decisions are taken on the Structural Funds . 
ENGLISH On this occasion , after stating that I voted for the motion , of course , I would call -- and I do so willingly -- for , in future , the projects to be financed as innovative actions to include projects which are concerned not only with improving working conditions in the strict sense but also with everything which affects pensioners , who , during the period in which they are not working , use the contributions they paid in when they were working , and so this period is , indirectly , a continuation of their working activity . 
ENGLISH Mr President , I would just like to say that the Radical Members abstained from the vote on the Virrankoski report because the Council was trying to secure for its own budget the costs arising from missions conducted by military advisers or others within the framework of the CFSP . 
ENGLISH Since Parliament has always taken great care to ensure that that CFSP expenditure is an integral part of the Union budget , with the result that it falls within the scope of the Commission budget , we are concerned at the way the Virrankoski report departs from this practice and at the tendency to include CFSP running and operational expenditure in the Council 's budget . 
ENGLISH This is why we abstained from the Virrankoski report . 
ENGLISH We voted against extra money for military advisers because we believe a peace policy needs peace experts and non - violent conflict resolution . 
ENGLISH Stauner Report ( A5 - 0190 / 2000 ) 
ENGLISH Mr President , I do not believe Parliament should feel satisfied with what has been achieved so far . 
ENGLISH In discharging the Commission , it runs the risk of losing credibility in the field of budgetary control and combating fraud . 
ENGLISH Nor am I sure whether people in this House actually realise that giving a discharge means accepting liability for damages . 
ENGLISH It will be hard to explain to the citizens of Europe why EUR 14 million of taxes were squandered on the Fléchard case and why Parliament is letting itself be fobbed off with empty promises . 
ENGLISH So everyone in this House who voted for the discharge to the Commission is assuming quite personal responsibility for it . 
ENGLISH We need hardly wonder why the citizens are increasingly losing faith in Europe . 
ENGLISH On behalf of my group , I therefore want to state that we voted against the discharge to the Commission for that reason . 
ENGLISH -- ( DA ) On 6 July 2000, members of the Union for a Europe of Nations Group voted against giving discharge to the Commission in respect of implementation of the general budget of the European Union for 1998 . 
ENGLISH The reason for this is that the present Commission , which has undertaken to implement an extensive administrative reform , is not showing sufficient willingness to implement this reform . 
ENGLISH The many cases of foot - dragging , delay and refusal to hand over documents to the Committee on Budgetary Control , together with the extraordinary fact that crucial reports and minutes are disappearing from the record offices where they belong , are an uncomfortable indication that a form of administration is being maintained which is more suited to the age of absolute monarchy . 
ENGLISH Clearly , the purpose of the secrecy is to protect the Commission' - s members and officials from the penalties which are used in every democratic national administration and without which the European Union' - s administration will never operate properly . 
ENGLISH One year after coming into office , the Commission has still not presented any proposal for fundamentally changing the provisions in the regulations for public officials which provide the kind of legal protection for incompetence and dishonesty that is completely absurd in an administration which purports to be democratic . 
ENGLISH The treatment of this report in the Committee on Budgetary Control has also shown that some Members of the European Parliament are more concerned with protecting the Commission against those citizens who pay for the EU' - s budget than with attending to the same citizens' - demand that their money be administered honestly and efficiently . 
ENGLISH Unacceptable pressure has been placed upon a number of rapporteurs , and the shady operators who have an interest in preventing the serious examples of fraud and deception in the Commission' - s administration from coming to light have not held back from making physical threats . 
ENGLISH A number of MEPs have today voted in favour of giving discharge . 
ENGLISH I am convinced that , in the long run , the majority of MEPs will regret having been so indulgent . 
ENGLISH - ( DE ) On 6 June I as rapporteur recommended to the Committee on Budgetary Control that we give the Commission a discharge for the 1998 financial year . 
ENGLISH Today I voted against that discharge . 
ENGLISH The deciding factor was the way the Commissioner for budgets handled the Fléchard case . 
ENGLISH This firm was suspected of fraud as early as 1992 . 
ENGLISH Nonetheless , it was let off a fine to the tune of EUR 14.6 million . 
ENGLISH Nonetheless the Commission continued to do business with it all those years , without asking any questions . 
ENGLISH Now the Italian financial police are investigating and it is said that the firm is involved in shady deals and the black marketeering of butter on a grand scale . 
ENGLISH Of course , we must not prejudge . 
ENGLISH But the Commissioner for budgets does not have the right to refuse to tell us how many millions the Commission has paid to this firm over the past years . 
ENGLISH Mrs Schreyer promised the figures to the Committee on Budgetary Control on 24 May , but has still not produced them . 
ENGLISH She gives one excuse after another . 
ENGLISH On Tuesday , she tried to make this House believe , wrongly , that Regulation 2390 / 1999 prevented her from presenting the figures . 
ENGLISH If the Commission refuses to render account , our response can only be to refuse the discharge . 
ENGLISH Mrs Redondo has asked for the floor on a point of order . 
ENGLISH Mrs Redondo , we have been unable to vote on a number of legislative reports because there is just not enough time , and so these will be put to the vote this afternoon after the votes on urgent subjects , as usual . 
ENGLISH Mr President , I urgently request you to ensure in future that legislative texts are voted on first in the order of voting . For it really is Parliament' - s primary task to decide legislation ! 
ENGLISH I do not approve of the fact that we have suspended the vote after only an hour and a half today , but I will have to accept it . 
ENGLISH However , I am absolutely against an order of voting that automatically means that legislative texts are not taken until Thursday evening . 
ENGLISH As you are aware , certain decisions are taken by the Conference of Presidents . 
ENGLISH Usually , when voting time starts at midday it lasts for an hour . 
ENGLISH Today , it started at 12.15 p.m. and ended at approximately 1.30 p.m. The votes on certain resolutions , such as the European Council of Feira , Zimbabwe and the trafficking of human beings took a relatively short time . 
ENGLISH The votes on the legislative drafts take up rather a lot of time . 
ENGLISH We will take note of your comment and pass it on to the Conference of Presidents , for , in the order of voting , according to the procedure we have been following , out of all the recommendations for second reading -- which engage our capacity as a legislative House -- priority is given to the drafts which engage our power of colegislation . 
ENGLISH I am sorry , Mr President , to continue from where I left off a moment ago and come back to what Mr Swoboda just said . 
ENGLISH Mr President , I understand everything you have said . But this week for the first time we did not have a vote at noon on Tuesday . 
ENGLISH That is a decision that was taken . 
ENGLISH We were against ; the majority of the House -- had they known of it -- the rapporteurs -- Mrs Redondo Jiménez and Mr Arvidsson and others -- would no doubt also have been against it . 
ENGLISH But if we do this , then we must also show some degree of flexibility . 
ENGLISH The Thursday sitting in July is a particularly sensitive one . 
ENGLISH We know that , we may not be happy about it , but that is how it is . 
ENGLISH So I would ask you to check whether the four legislative reports that are still on the agenda , and that do not need long votes , can be carried over to the next part - session . 
ENGLISH Mrs Redondo Jiménez herself asked the same , in the case of her report , and she has my support . 
ENGLISH Mr Arvidsson -- all this relates to what I know about -- will , I hope , also agree . So I would ask you to contact the rapporteurs and the groups . 
ENGLISH Mrs Roth - Behrendt , as you are aware , a request can be made to postpone a debate either at the start of a sitting in the morning or at the start of voting time . 
ENGLISH Therefore , when voting time is resumed this afternoon , a rapporteur or another member of the Committee will be able to request that the report be put to the vote in September . 
ENGLISH Mr President , you are absolutely right , that is the correct procedure . 
ENGLISH But if we plan to do that and if it is certain that , let us say , Mr Swoboda or I or others move this proposal , it would be only fair to inform the rapporteurs of this possibility . 
ENGLISH In any case , the presiding President will be informed of the request and will , of course , give the floor to any Member who wishes to speak at that time . 
ENGLISH Mr President , I voted against the Rühle report . 
ENGLISH There has to be an error of at least 3 decimal points . 
ENGLISH Apart from this , I would like to stress that , in addition to the other aspects which are inadequate as the rapporteur himself states in his report -- which begs the question of why he does not conclude the report with a recommendation to vote against it -- it would be appropriate to give at least part of these funds to voluntary organisations , which include many pensioners and elderly people who are willing to go out into the world and assist developing countries . 
ENGLISH . ( FR ) The European Parliament , during its sitting of 13 April 2000, quite rightly decided to delay the decision giving discharge to the European Commission on the implementation of the budget for the year 1998 . 
ENGLISH This decision was legitimate , insofar as the citizens of our nations have the right to be told how the money of the European Union , their money , is being spent . 
ENGLISH Indeed , the irregularities noted , both those covered in Mrs Stauner' - s report on the questionable management of the Commission , and those underlined in Mrs Rühle' - s report on the various European Development Funds , cannot leave anyone indifferent , and necessarily damage the image and credibility of the Community as a whole . 
ENGLISH In addition , we must draw the proper conclusions , in terms of sanctioning those responsible , certainly , but also in establishing far more transparent procedures . 
ENGLISH As shown by the votes of the Committee on Budgetary Control , the reports by Mrs Rühle and Mrs Stauner are heading in this direction . 
ENGLISH Mrs Rühle' - s report on the various EDFs clearly confronts the Commission with its responsibilities ; it demands more clarity for all future aid distributed by the Community for the benefit of developing countries . 
ENGLISH The desire to raise moral standards regarding aid policy and increase the efficacy of the use of aid is a principle which is now clearly defined and our group is pleased with that . 
ENGLISH There is no question , however , of accepting that , on the pretext of better monitoring , in order to achieve a more honest and rational use of the European funds -- and I am thinking of African , Caribbean and Pacific countries in particular , that our action should be a pretext for also organising the unfounded trial of certain countries of the European Union -- incidentally one of the main net contributors ( I am talking about France ) -- by means of a witch hunt which , it is said , targets certain high - ranking civil servants of that nationality . 
ENGLISH Greater transparency is also our primary concern with regard to the finances of political groups within this House ; the citizens of Europe , moreover , would not understand if we said otherwise . 
ENGLISH We must also take note of the responses of our institution to the observations of the Court of Auditors , and without delay encourage all relevant reform in accordance with the financial regulation and the principle of transparency . 
ENGLISH In conclusion , I will say -- so much is clear -- that we should not introduce confusion between the discharge procedure , which represents an overall appreciation of the management of the European Commission as laid down by the Treaty , and the handling of a number of isolated matters which , although clearly serious , are still only isolated cases and represent a low figure with regard to the total budget . 
ENGLISH We must keep a sense of proportion ! 
ENGLISH Our Group congratulates the rapporteurs , Mrs Stauner , Mrs Rühle and Mr Kuhne , on their commendable efforts . We should , however , remain alert and be in a position to observe what the European Commission' - s attitude will actually be with regard to the commitments it has made . 
ENGLISH Our Group therefore considers it necessary , for the time being , to abstain . 
ENGLISH Kuhne report ( A5 - 0189 / 2000 ) 
ENGLISH -- ( DE ) I voted against giving a discharge to the Secretary - General because he gave misleading information to the political decision - making bodies about the purchase of the ASP building in Brussels . 
ENGLISH This wrongly gave the impression that the Council and the Commission had agreed to the building being financed with the help of the then property developer . 
ENGLISH Furthermore , this wrongly gave the impression that financing the building with the help of the property developer was an indirect form of financing . 
ENGLISH In fact , in 1988 Parliament directly indebted itself to a banking consortium headed by WestLB , for amounts of ECU 472 million and BEF 7 billion , without first publishing an invitation to tender for the contract in the Official Journal . 
ENGLISH The Court of Auditors also found that the relevant financial regulations had been infringed . 
ENGLISH Papayannakis report ( A5 - 0193 / 2000 ) 
ENGLISH . -- ( FR ) Only after the mad cow scandal did we realise the need to improve the traceability and labelling of foodstuffs . 
ENGLISH Europe was very slow to react and was left far behind in terms of beef . 
ENGLISH Today , on the basis of a unanimous agreement within the Council , we finally have the opportunity to show a little determination . 
ENGLISH Concerning the mandatory statements , indication of origin , implementation dates , minced meat and the optional system , I believe that Parliament should be satisfied : the Council has listened to us . 
ENGLISH This is why I wholeheartedly supported this common position as it stood and did not vote for any amendments . 
ENGLISH The debate has focused on a few specific points and in particular on the indication of the category of animal on the label . 
ENGLISH Certain fellow Members have explained , in good faith , that this statement does nothing to contribute to tracing beef . 
ENGLISH They are correct . 
ENGLISH However , after the series of food scandals , which this House has always vigorously denounced , how could we today omit to take account of the colossal role played by the consumer ? 
ENGLISH Specifically mentioning the category is a response to a demand . 
ENGLISH It contributes to restoring consumer confidence . 
ENGLISH Two types of information must be distinguished : 
ENGLISH information making it possible to improve traceability , but that is not directly intended to inform the end consumer . 
ENGLISH As it is too specific , it can really only be read by professionals . 
ENGLISH It fulfils a health function . 
ENGLISH It is on the basis of these statements that controls can be carried out . 
ENGLISH We are therefore talking about setting up identification and traceability systems ; 
ENGLISH the second type of information is directly intended for citizens like you and me , who buy their meat every day . 
ENGLISH What do they want to know ? 
ENGLISH They want to be sure that the product they are to consume is safe : the traceability and identification system will make it possible to guarantee the safety and quality of beef . 
ENGLISH But the citizen would also like to know what type of meat it is . 
ENGLISH This type of indication on the label is addressed directly to the end consumer and gives him intelligible information . 
ENGLISH It is a mistake to say that this is pointless . 
ENGLISH Europe must give consumers back their confidence , as they have been avoiding beef since the mad cow scandal . 
ENGLISH The implications are significant for the agro - food sector overall , which has been struck squarely by this crisis . 
ENGLISH These two types of information are not in competition ; they are complementary and contribute , each at their own level , to restoring the confidence of European consumers . 
ENGLISH The confidence of our consumers cannot be decreed , it must be won . 
ENGLISH Garcia - Orcoyen Tormo report ( A5 - 0165 / 2000 ) 
ENGLISH . -- It is a correct policy objective of the European Union to ensure that businesses carry out their affairs in an environmentally - friendly manner . 
ENGLISH What we are discussing here today is the revision of the original 1993 regulation which put in place the Community Eco - Management and Audit scheme . 
ENGLISH The criteria for inclusion on the EMAS register are very stringent . 
ENGLISH The fact of the matter is that there is public reporting of the results which are carried out by each national standards authority within every Member State of the European Union . 
ENGLISH Each national standards authority carries out a comprehensive and full review of all the activities of a prospective applicant under the EMAS scheme that may affect the environment . 
ENGLISH Under the new regulation which we are discussing here today easier access will be made for small - and medium - sized enterprises to apply for accreditation under the EMAS scheme . 
ENGLISH For the most part it has only been larger industrial companies which have sought recognition under the Community Eco - Management and Audit scheme to date . 
ENGLISH We must remember that the EMAS scheme is the European version of the International Standard known as ISO14001 . 
ENGLISH In essence , this ISO International Standard is the equivalent to the ISO9000 for European companies but with the appropriate environmental slant . 
ENGLISH It is the correct policy of the European Union to ensure that all companies in Europe respect the environment and ensure that the necessary practices are put in place to guarantee their operations do not adversely impact on the environment in any shape or form . That is why I fully support proposals to ensure that easier access will be made for small - and medium - sized enterprises to be incorporated under the EMAS framework . 
ENGLISH There must be greater flexibility within this system no matter how stringent the rules are to ensure that all sectors and all businesses in the European Union have an opportunity to secure accreditation under the Community Eco - Management and Audit scheme . 
ENGLISH I fully support this programme and commend this report . 
ENGLISH Recommendation for second reading : Breyer ( A5 - 0166 / 2000 ) 
ENGLISH Mr President , I voted for the recommendation , which sets limit values for benzene and carbon monoxide in the ambient air . 
ENGLISH Of course I am in favour of this , in that whenever there is a danger , pensioners and the elderly are always among the first to be affected , for , understandably , their lungs are often in bad shape . 
ENGLISH Apart from this , I would like to call strongly for there to be focus in the future not only on the air inhaled by the citizens , but also on the air inhaled by those who work with dangerous substances such as benzene and carbon monoxide . 
ENGLISH It would be appropriate for us to concern ourselves with this matter and reduce the working hours of those who work with dangerous substances to less than those of the other workers , to enable them to enjoy an average life span . 
ENGLISH I feel that the European Union should concern itself , in particular , with the conditions and working hours of the citizens who inhale those dangerous substances against which we rightly protect pedestrians . 
ENGLISH Workers should receive even greater protection . 
ENGLISH Mr President , I voted for the motion and I congratulate the rapporteur , Mrs Jackson , who worked so hard to ensure that this recommendation on the practical organisation of environmental inspections becomes a directive . 
ENGLISH There is no point in Parliament adopting hundreds and hundreds of extremely important and useful directives and regulations if adequate , effective , practical monitoring is not then carried out in order to ensure that they are genuinely implemented and are of benefit to all the citizens of the European Union , particularly -- as I said a moment ago -- when it is a matter of environmental health , as it is in this case , and when failure to observe the rules causes harm , above all , to pensioners and the elderly . 
ENGLISH . -- The principal aim of this recommendation is to strengthen the compliance with and to contribute to a more consistent implementation and enforcement of Community environmental law in the Member States . 
ENGLISH This draft recommendation establishes minimum criteria to be applied in the organising , carrying out , following up and publicising of the results of environmental inspections . 
ENGLISH It provides for environmental inspections of all industrial and other enterprises whose emissions and discharges on the environment are subject to particular authorisations or licensing requirements . 
ENGLISH This would certainly be the case for all companies who receive pollution control licences under the auspices of the Environmental Protection Agencies . 
ENGLISH Two types of inspections are foreseen , in particular , routine inspections carried out as part of a planned inspection programme and non - routine inspections as a follow - up to complaints in connection with the issue and renewal or modification of various licences . 
ENGLISH Under this draft recommendation , each plan should define the geographical area which it covers , cover a defined period of time , include specific provisions for its revision , identify the specific sites or types of installations covered , prescribe the programmes for routine environmental inspections , provide for and outline the procedures for non - routine environmental inspections , provide for coordination between the different inspecting authorities . 
ENGLISH I would like to commend the rapporteur , Caroline Jackson , for her report . 
ENGLISH In her report she is calling for this proposal to be translated into a directive which would have uniform application across the European Union . 
ENGLISH The rapporteur believes that only a directive can force the Member States to introduce these inspection systems . 
ENGLISH As a member of the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Policy of the European Parliament , I support the need for Member States to establish harmonised environmental inspections . 
ENGLISH The EU Council must listen to the European Parliament in this regard . 
ENGLISH The European Union also has competence in environmental matters under Article 130 of the Maastricht Treaty . 
ENGLISH Santa Maria da Feira European Council of 19 and 20 June 2000 
ENGLISH . -- ( EL ) There are four important observations to be made on the Portuguese presidency and the presidency 's closing summit in Santa Maria da Feira : 
ENGLISH By contrast , no positive action was taken to promote peace , as the continuing quagmire in Yugoslavia illustrates . 
ENGLISH Secondly , it is clear from developments at the Intergovernmental Conference that we are moving towards a " two - speed Europe " rather than towards democratisation , as continual reference to " closer cooperation " and various proposals to reduce the weighting of small countries in both the Council and the Commission illustrate . 
ENGLISH Thirdly , the European Union , under pressure from the United Kingdom in particular , failed to reach a specific agreement and binding timetable on tax information , leaving tax havens free to operate within the Union . 
ENGLISH Fourthly , the Lisbon Summit , midway through the Portuguese presidency , gave another sign in favour of abandoning the European welfare model and changing to the American model . 
ENGLISH -- ( DA ) The Danish Social Democrats in the European Parliament have voted today in favour of the resolution concerning the conclusions from the European Council' - s summit in Feira on 19 - 20 June 2000 . 
ENGLISH Our overall vote cannot , however , be taken as implying that we support the desire for an extended agenda at the Intergovernmental Conference and the legally binding incorporation of the Charter of Fundamental Rights into the Treaty . In this connection , we would refer to our explanations of vote on these matters , issued in connection with the Helsinki Summit , the calling of the Intergovernmental Conference , the European Parliament' - s position on the Intergovernmental Conference and preparations for the Feira Summit . 
ENGLISH I was unable to vote in favour of the compromise resolution , mainly because the paragraph on taxation is a little too sparse and casts a biased judgement on what was really decided in Feira . 
ENGLISH We should have confirmed the need to preserve the competitiveness of European financial markets by the simultaneous adoption of equivalent measures in key third countries and identical measures in associated or dependent territories . 
ENGLISH We should also have asked to receive the reports that the Commission should present at regular intervals on the application of information exchange systems and systems for taxation at source from savings , as well as the report on the basis of which the adoption and implementation of the directive are to be decided . 
ENGLISH I would remind you that this was not the case . 
ENGLISH I know that opinion on the tax compromise that we just managed to negotiate in Feira is divided . 
ENGLISH This is reflected in all the European press . 
ENGLISH I cannot help but name a few headlines from French language papers , - 'Delaying compromise on savings tax' - , - 'Doubts on Feira tax compromise' - , - 'Superficial agreement , fundamental disagreement' - , - 'lame agreement' - , - 'taxation at source , coexistence , nothing at all ? 
ENGLISH ' - or from the German language papers , - 'Brown the Scot boosts London as a financial centre . 
ENGLISH London leads the way in the EU tax battle' - , - 'Swiss banks see no need for action' - , - 'all financial centres must cooperate to do away with banking secrecy' - . 
ENGLISH The observation in the Basler Zeitung of 24 June is also telling , - 'We are more likely to see the Matterhorn crumble than the Swiss electorate release bank staff from their confidentiality obligations and the Bern Finance Minister become the tax collector for Brussels . ' - 
ENGLISH In this context , the headline in the Écho of 24 June , which accurately notes that - 'without sufficient guarantees , Luxembourg will block the taxation directive' - and that - 'the exchange of information should also be applied by competing markets' - , reflects what was really decided in Feira . 
ENGLISH The fact that our resolution complains about the Feira timetable illustrates the ignorance or delusion of the authors of this passage , whom I would like to remind of what the Luxembourg Prime Minister specified in Feira on this subject , that is , that with regard to taxation of savings - 'there are still around fifty technical matters which have never been discussed by the Commission' - . 
ENGLISH In this context , complaining that the timetable did not reflect the urgency of the problem is irresponsibly unrealistic . 
ENGLISH A surprising expression sprang from the lips of the last President of the Council , when he presented the summary of the Portuguese Presidency to us on Monday . 
ENGLISH - & # x2018 ; We must not & # x2019 ; - , declared Prime Minister Antonio Guterres , - & # x2018 ; Allow an intergovernmental drift to take place . 
ENGLISH & # x2019 ; - The debate on a federal Europe , which has just begun again , must take place as a whole . 
ENGLISH Is it not paradoxical to see the representative of the governments of the Member States denouncing the risk of an - & # x2018 ; intergovernmental drift & # x2019 ; - in the European Union ? 
ENGLISH The paradox is even greater as what is clearly obvious to everyone , or almost everyone , today , is that on the contrary federal formulas , and in particular the latest , that of intensified cooperation , inevitably lead to a dead end. In order to try to resolve the inescapable contradiction between federalism and enlargement , particular emphasis has been placed on the miracle formula of intensified cooperation throughout the Portuguese Presidency . 
ENGLISH It was even presented here on Tuesday by President Chirac , as a sort of universal solution , with a - & # x2018 ; vanguard & # x2019 ; - of - & # x2018 ; pioneer countries & # x2019 ; - clearing the way for all . 
ENGLISH Let us note in passing , with regard to vanguards , the reappearance in the framework of European federalism of expressions which were previously widely used in other ideological contexts . 
ENGLISH Not only is closer cooperation itself vigorously denounced , and rightly so , by the small - and medium - sized Member States , as damaging to their integrity , whereas sovereignty is a principle that guarantees the equality and respect of each . 
ENGLISH However , even within closer cooperation , it is clear that the application of the principle of the majority , in place of unanimity , could create unbearable tension , conferring a monopoly of decision making on one dominant country . 
ENGLISH Such that it seems that the qualified majority principle , if it cannot be applied to 35, cannot be applied to 2 or 3 either . 
ENGLISH It is becoming apparent that the - & # x2018 ; miracle solution & # x2019 ; - is in fact a dual source of tension , that could profoundly affect European cooperation . 
ENGLISH This is why , instead of closer cooperation , which would inevitably lead to dangerous tension , we propose differentiated cooperation , concluded between sovereign States that are free to decide to sign the agreements they want in the areas they want , provided that these are not damaging to the fundamental interests of their partners . 
ENGLISH Trafficking of human beings 
ENGLISH . -- ( FR ) The Lutte ouvrière Members share the indignation expressed by the GUE proposal , which we voted on , at the death of the 58 immigrants in Dover , and of so many others , who attempted to cross external or internal borders of the European Union . 
ENGLISH In order to put an end to a situation where poverty forces thousands of human beings to leave for lands where they hope to have a slightly better life , we must put an end to a social system which , in order to concentrate extraordinary riches in the hands of the few , enforces poverty on the majority of the planet . 
ENGLISH Obviously , a vote in Parliament will not bring about this upheaval , although it is an essential need for humanity . 
ENGLISH It is disgusting that , even in areas where current national and European institutions could actually do something , they do nothing . 
ENGLISH The barbed wire fence we are currently setting up around the European Union exists even within the Union for third country nationals , and these barriers can kill . 
ENGLISH Immigrants must be guaranteed the rights to which every human being should be entitled . 
ENGLISH We wish to protest most strongly at the policy of the French Government , which revels in its role as President of the European Union but which refuses to regularise 65 000 immigrant workers who have become illegal immigrants as a result of unfair laws , and we demand that their situation be regularised immediately . 
ENGLISH Mr President , I shall explain my vote in writing . 
ENGLISH However , may I submit a procedural motion ? 
ENGLISH Previously , when Members were present for the vote and an explanation of vote was made in writing , it was possible to leave , as the President used to state that he had received such and such a written explanation of vote on such and such a report . 
ENGLISH Now , we have to wait . 
ENGLISH Yesterday I waited 40 minutes to say that I was submitting my explanation of the vote in writing ! 
ENGLISH It is a waste of time . 
ENGLISH What we are doing is already somewhat inhuman : we vote from 12 p.m. to 1.30 p.m. and then we stay here until 4 p.m. to say that we are submitting a written explanation of vote ! 
ENGLISH The parliamentary services told me that I had to be here . 
ENGLISH Perhaps you would have agreed & # x2026 ; nevertheless , could we not clarify things ? 
ENGLISH I understand that Members who are not taking part in the vote on a report or resolution cannot submit a written explanation , but why must those who have taken part in the vote , who are submitting a written explanation , stay here for another half - hour ? 
ENGLISH Could you clarify that ? 
ENGLISH Mrs Lulling , whose fault are you saying it is ? 
ENGLISH Your fellow Members who are giving their explanations of vote ? 
ENGLISH If all the Members here had given their explanations of vote in writing you would have had your chance rather earlier . 
ENGLISH However , your fellow Members have the right to give explanations of vote on all the reports that we put to the vote . 
ENGLISH Mr President , I would like to comment on points 2 and 3, in which it is claimed that the Intergovernmental Conference is the key issue in the run - up to enlargement of the EU . 
ENGLISH This is not the case . 
ENGLISH The key issue is primarily that of how the negotiations with the candidate countries are handled and what result is achieved . 
ENGLISH There is still no final date set , and the candidate countries think that the EU is extremely imprecise regarding its position . 
ENGLISH I would also like to comment on point 10, the contents of which I think involve an unfortunate development in the direction of militarisation of the European Union . 
ENGLISH I am saying this also as a representative of a country that is non - aligned . 
ENGLISH What sort of a statement is this ? 
ENGLISH In this connection , I would like to quote the Swedish constitution and its words about - & # x2018 ; the ancient right of the Swedish people to impose taxes on themselves " . 
ENGLISH ( The sitting was suspended at 1.50 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m ) . 
ENGLISH Topical and urgent debate 
ENGLISH The next item is the debate on topical and urgent subjects of major importance . 
ENGLISH Mr Maaten has the floor for a point of order . 
ENGLISH Madam President , I would like to take the floor at the beginning of the topical debate , because , in accordance with Rule 146 of the Rules of Procedure , this is the right time to do this in my opinion . 
ENGLISH Indeed , the next item on the agenda is a resolution on Euro 2000 and hooligans . And although we are certainly in favour of discussing this matter , there are elements in this resolution which are still under investigation by the legal authorities in the Netherlands . 
ENGLISH In our view , therefore , it would be premature at this stage to pass judgement on this legal investigation . 
ENGLISH I would therefore move , based on Rule 146, to adjourn the debate on this resolution until our part - session in September . 
ENGLISH This Rule also stipulates that such a motion shall be put to the vote immediately . 
ENGLISH First of all , Mr Maaten , the article you are talking about only refers to one Group or 32 Members . 
ENGLISH Secondly , it does not directly concern the question of matters for topical and urgent debate , as the very principle of urgent matters is to discuss them at the beginning of the part - session in order to establish a framework for them . 
ENGLISH This is not like a referral back to committee . 
ENGLISH If it is accepted , we must follow the procedure through and the debate must take place . 
ENGLISH Madam President , I would ask you to communicate to Mrs Fontaine , so that she may make the relevant representations to the competent institutions , the great concern in the Gulf of Algeciras about the presence , for more than two months now , of the British nuclear submarine , HMS Tireless , which has broken down , apparently with a very serious problem relating to its cooling system . 
ENGLISH According to the latest information , it appears that they intend to repair it there . 
ENGLISH The inhabitants of the area have expressed their complete opposition to its being repaired there , by means of a joint resolution of the political groups which has been approved today . 
ENGLISH From this House , we urgently request that the British Government immediately remove this machine from the bay and repair it in England , where we suppose that they will at least have the appropriate facilities to do so . 
ENGLISH Madam President , there are nonetheless groups which support Mr Maaten' - s motion . He has spoken on behalf of the ELDR Group and I endorse his motion on behalf of the EDD Group . 
ENGLISH I would thus ask you to proceed to the vote in line with the Rules of Procedure . 
ENGLISH No , Mr Blokland , the Rules of Procedure do not lay down that the postponement of an urgent matter can be put to the vote . 
ENGLISH Topical and urgent matters are a very specific case . 
ENGLISH It was voted upon on Monday and this House , by sovereign right , drew up a framework for it . 
ENGLISH As soon as a matter becomes urgent , it cannot be postponed . 
ENGLISH Obviously , the arguments developed by you and Mr Maatten can be considered during the debate , but I am not putting the postponement of this debate to the vote . 
ENGLISH Madam President , you are interpreting the text in a specific way , but I read the text and it does not make any mention of exemptions for urgent debates . 
ENGLISH Every item that is put on Monday' - s agenda by the House can be taken off the agenda again in the course of the week , should it transpire that , on reflection , fresh arguments have come to light . 
ENGLISH New arguments have emerged in this instance . 
ENGLISH We now know that the Dutch justice system is launching an inquiry . 
ENGLISH It seems clear to me , therefore , that when we decided to discuss this matter on Monday , we did not have this piece of information at our disposal . 
ENGLISH We now have new information , which we need to take into account . 
ENGLISH I therefore believe that your interpretation of the Rules of Procedure is not according to the letter of the Rules of Procedure . 
ENGLISH Mr Blokland , I believe my interpretation is in line with the letter and spirit of our Rules of Procedure . 
ENGLISH Regardless of this , if new factors come into play , these can be communicated during the debate to provide additional information for our fellow Members when they come to vote . 
ENGLISH However , I stand by this interpretation , which is linked both to the principle of the agenda and the principle of urgent matters . 
ENGLISH Madam President , I simply wish to express my agreement with the words of the Member from the Partido Andalucista , from Andalucia , and suggest , as a place to repair the British nuclear submarine , the gardens of Buckingham Palace . That is where they could take the aforementioned - 'beast' - . 
ENGLISH All the arguments have been expressed on the subject of this postponement . 
ENGLISH I maintain my position and I now suggest that we move straight on to the debate on Fiji and the Solomon islands , as that is what our fellow Members are waiting for . 
ENGLISH The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions : 
ENGLISH B5 - 0607 / 2000 by Mr Speroni , on behalf of the Technical Group of Independent Members , on Fiji ; 
ENGLISH B5 - 0616 / 2000 by Mrs Ludford , on behalf of the Group of the Europe Liberal , Democrat and Reform Party , on the situation in Fiji and the Solomon Islands ; 
ENGLISH B5 - 0629 / 2000 by Mr Marset Campos , on behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left / Nordic Green Left , on the situation in Fiji and the Solomon Islands ; 
ENGLISH B5 - 0636 / 2000 by Mrs Lucas , on behalf of the Group of the Greens / European Free Alliance , on the situation in Fiji ; 
ENGLISH B5 - 0640 / 2000 by Mrs Lucas , on behalf of the Group of the Greens / European Free Alliance , on the situation in the Solomon Islands ; 
ENGLISH B5 - 0644 / 2000 by Mr van den Berg and Mrs Kinnock , on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists , on Fiji and the Solomon Islands . 
ENGLISH Madam President , what is happening in Fiji is further evidence that the pathetic dreams of those who believe in a multiethnic and multiracial society are unrealistic . 
ENGLISH Indeed , we can see that the conflict between the indigenous ethnic group and the immigrant ethnic group has flared up dramatically , although it is true that there has been relatively little bloodshed . 
ENGLISH The same thing is happening in the nearby Solomon Islands and all over the world . 
ENGLISH The events in the Great Lakes region in Africa , the events on the island of Timor and the current situation in the Moluccas are all evidence of the fact that peaceful cohabitation of communities with completely different traditions , cultures and histories cannot exist outside the good intentions of those who are for total globalisation . 
ENGLISH Therefore , in my opinion , we need to focus our efforts chiefly on protecting the indigenous ethnic groups , so that the indigenous Fijians do not share the fate of the South American Indians or the indigenous populations of Central and North America , and to ensure that their culture is preserved by controlling illegal immigration , so that what is happening there and has sadly already come about in the Balkans does not occur in Europe as well . 
ENGLISH In both Fiji and the Solomon Islands democratic government and law and order have been undermined . 
ENGLISH In Fiji the aim must be to restore the legitimate government elected on the basis of the 1997 multi - racial constitution , which was approved by both ethnic groups -- Indo - Fijians and indigenous Fijians . 
ENGLISH Violence against property and people must cease and the hostages released . 
ENGLISH The interim civilian administration installed in Fiji does not meet the constitutional or democratic tests . 
ENGLISH We therefore call on the Commission to begin with determination the procedures to suspend development cooperation with Fiji . 
ENGLISH Madam President , I want to concentrate on the Solomon Islands , but first just a word on Fiji . 
ENGLISH My ACP - EU Vice - President is one of those held hostage and I would ask you to send a letter of support to his family . 
ENGLISH The ACP - EU delegation went to the Solomon Islands to study the ethnic tension . 
ENGLISH It was quite clear after talks that a coup was imminent . 
ENGLISH Why did it happen ? 
ENGLISH The parliament was not functioning . 
ENGLISH This situation is unsustainable . 
ENGLISH The ethnic conflict is all about the expulsion from Guadalcanal of 40 000 Malaitans back to their own island , to severe hardship , without any compensation . 
ENGLISH The presence of Mrs Kinnock and myself did influence the situation for the better . 
ENGLISH We created dialogue . 
ENGLISH We had the 48 - hour resignation demand on the prime minister withdrawn . 
ENGLISH We advised them to recall Parliament and have a debate on the situation and this has now happened . 
ENGLISH Amazingly the leader of the opposition is now the prime minister . 
ENGLISH All this happened because we pointed out the European Union could withdraw aid if the coup took place at the point of a gun . 
ENGLISH That aid is 25 % of their GDP . 
ENGLISH But the country is bankrupt and the new prime minister will face the same problems as the last . 
ENGLISH He must make the parliamentary structure more active , work towards a cease - fire and then have talks on compensation with outside assistance . 
ENGLISH Outside help will also be needed to regain law and order . 
ENGLISH I should like to finish by thanking the members of the delegation office there who were so helpful to us . 
ENGLISH Madam President , ladies and gentlemen , it is true that the Pacific always evokes images of paradise : beaches , coconut palms , sun . 
ENGLISH Today , the reality is far sadder . 
ENGLISH The most incredible thing in this matter , apart from the passivity of our institutions , is that the pretext of interethnic tension is always used to explain such conflicts . 
ENGLISH We are well aware , however , that the true cause is not just that . 
ENGLISH In the Solomon Islands , the vast majority of the population is Melanesian and Christian . 
ENGLISH In Fiji , almost half the population is of Indian origin , but these origins date back to the last century . 
ENGLISH Moreover , in spite of these differences , all these people are at home in Fiji . 
ENGLISH I believe there are causes other than this ethnic conflict . 
ENGLISH For example , we deny the role played by those who make a profit from these conflicts : multinationals and local politicians . 
ENGLISH For the former , periods of instability mean fewer social , tax and environmental obligations as the State is very weak in these cases and conflicts favour the arms industry as the political groups need to get their weapons from somewhere . 
ENGLISH As far as politicians are concerned , the practice of pitting one group against another , as , for example , the far right does in Europe , allows a political vacuum to be created or power to be maintained . 
ENGLISH This practice is only possible because the population is poor and suffers from a lack of knowledge of other groups . 
ENGLISH In this case , the two conflicts should have enabled some people to take back or gain power that they could not win through the ballot box . 
ENGLISH In Fiji , the coup d' - état was fomented by a bankrupt businessman who used his distant Fiji origins to legitimise his actions . 
ENGLISH As for the new Prime Minister , he is also from a business background . 
ENGLISH In the Solomon Islands , a sham parliamentary vote brought a new Prime Minister to power , elected by the power of the gun . 
ENGLISH These two examples support our vision of the conflict . 
ENGLISH The joint resolution , however , is too sanctimonious and effectively wants to restore the previous situation . 
ENGLISH As is all too often the case , it does not refer to the true sources of these conflicts : poverty and the underlying self - interested role of political and economic participants . 
ENGLISH From this point of view , if we want to be really effective , we must prevent further conflicts and to do so , we must genuinely aid the development of education , the local economy and local democracy . 
ENGLISH This is how we might succeed in changing things . 
ENGLISH Madam President , my comments will be on the question of Fiji . 
ENGLISH Some days ago , a number of ethnic Fijian Indians representing that community and the Indian diaspora who are concerned about these conflicts came to the Parliament . 
ENGLISH They expressed their deepest concern about the situation in Fiji , about its symbolism and how it could affect Indian communities in other areas of the world . 
ENGLISH Their concern was not precisely for the ethnic Indian community , it was for Fiji . 
ENGLISH It was designed to solve the ethnic problems in the islands , including the land issue and that constitution was unanimously approved by an ethnic - Fijian - dominated Parliament and blessed by the Great Council Of Chiefs . 
ENGLISH Clearly the lawlessness and violence has undermined that constitution but we must look more deeply at the causes of the conflict . 
ENGLISH This House has to ensure that in those countries where we give aid we monitor the breakdown of law and order and look at the interests of those ethnic minorities who are in danger . 
ENGLISH The concerns expressed are very real . 
ENGLISH We have the ability to suspend aid if we believe that there is something going wrong in Fiji . 
ENGLISH Myself and Glenys Kinnock and other colleagues who have met with the ethnic Indian community want to help them find a solution to this conflict . 
ENGLISH Madam President , ladies and gentlemen , the Commission has been observing the events in Fiji since 18 May with growing concern . 
ENGLISH It really is discouraging to see the achievements of an entire decade put at risk . 
ENGLISH Fiji had a constitution that was not based on racism . 
ENGLISH It had a democratically elected government . 
ENGLISH That has fallen and been replaced by an interim government appointed by the military . 
ENGLISH Fiji has already suffered enormous economic damage at this point . 
ENGLISH There is a risk that investors will lose confidence in it . 
ENGLISH It even risks being expelled from the Commonwealth . 
ENGLISH The Commission is currently preparing a proposal to the Council on the application of Article 366a of the Lomé Convention because , in its the view , the fundamental principles of the Convention -- democracy , the rule of law and respect for human rights -- are no longer guaranteed in Fiji . 
ENGLISH Let me remind you that this proposal initially provides for consultations between the parties . 
ENGLISH Further measures or sanctions will only be decided in a second stage , on the basis of the results of the consultations and how they are assessed . 
ENGLISH So it is too early , at this point in time , to contemplate further measures or sanctions . 
ENGLISH Any response on our part should be well - considered and targeted . 
ENGLISH A trade ban , as called for by unions in Australia and New Zealand , would result in the dismissal of more than 40 000 workers in the clothing and tourist industry , and that should be avoided . 
ENGLISH Turning to the Solomon Islands , here too the Commission has been observing the deteriorating security situation with concern . 
ENGLISH The Commission supports all the efforts made by the mediators to ensure that the parties concerned can discuss the outstanding issues and differences of opinion openly and without the threat of violence . 
ENGLISH The Commission is ready to use its instruments to support the peace process as soon as the political and security situation allows it . 
ENGLISH The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m . 
ENGLISH The next item is the joint debate on the following joint motions for resolutions : 
ENGLISH B5 - 0608 / 2000, by Mr Pannella and others , on behalf of the Technical Group of Independent Members , on the need to stop Chinese colonisation and adopt a new Statute for Tibet ; 
ENGLISH B5 - 0617 / 2000, by Mrs Muscardini and Mr Collins , on behalf of the Union for a Europe of Nations Group , on Tibet ; 
ENGLISH B5 - 0621 / 2000, by Mr Thomas Mann and Mr Bowis , on behalf of the Group of the Europe People' - s Party ( Christian Democrats ) and European Democrats , on the Western China Poverty Reduction Project and the future of Tibet ; 
ENGLISH B5 - 0641 / 2000, by Mr Messner and Mrs Frassoni , on behalf of the Group of the Greens / European Free Alliance , on the urgent need for Sino - Tibetan negotiations with a view to the adoption of a new Statute for Tibet ; 
ENGLISH B5 - 0645 / 2000, by Mr Sakellariou and Mr Veltroni , on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists , on Tibet 
ENGLISH Madam President , Commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , I think we are preparing to vote on an important text on Tibet , and that today we have the opportunity to make a qualitative leap forward in this fundamental battle . 
ENGLISH This is a battle of law , and of international law . 
ENGLISH Tibet is occupied , Tibet was invaded by Chinese troops in 1949 and since then has been occupied and colonised by the Chinese . 
ENGLISH I think that we must , of course , vote en masse in favour of this resolution , but that we must also vote for the amendment tabled by Mr Thomas Mann , by the liberal group and by the Group of the Greens , an amendment which asks our governments to consider the possibility of recognising the exiled Tibetan Government if , within three years , the Chinese authorities and the exiled Tibetan Government have not ultimately signed an agreement on the substantial autonomy of Tibet . 
ENGLISH We can no longer leave the decision not to tackle the problem up to the goodwill , or in this case the ill will , of the authorities of Beijing . 
ENGLISH We must oblige them and , through political action by Parliament , assert our determination to see this matter , which has lasted 50 years , finally resolved . 
ENGLISH I would particularly like to call on my left - wing , socialist and communist friends to stop using double standards ! 
ENGLISH We all remember the great battles to decolonise Africa , the liberation of Algeria and Vietnam . 
ENGLISH Look at the results today : the latter is still in the hands of a totalitarian system , a dictatorship . 
ENGLISH Today , in Tibet , there is a non - violent fight for democracy . 
ENGLISH There is no reason not to do here what we did there , what many of us did in those days . 
ENGLISH Today , the matter of Tibet must become a matter of law , an affirmation of non - violence by the international community . 
ENGLISH China is a large country which has a right to democracy . 
ENGLISH So much is clear , but that cannot be a reason to further sacrifice the right of Tibetans to live with their own culture , in full autonomy in every area that must be governed by the people . 
ENGLISH I therefore sincerely invite my socialist and communist friends to vote for this resolution and this amendment , in order to make sure that , at least this once , Parliament is at the forefront of this battle for freedom , democracy and non - violence . 
ENGLISH Madam President , happy birthday Dalai Lama ! 
ENGLISH But I am not sure that today is such a happy day for him , because after all , the most valuable contribution which the EU can make to the world is standing up for human rights and democracy , and these are still being flouted in Tibet . 
ENGLISH In the light of this , I would like to make the following observations . 
ENGLISH First of all , why is it that there is still no real dialogue at official level between the Chinese Government and the Tibetan Government in exile ? 
ENGLISH All manner of so - called indirect contacts have led to nothing . 
ENGLISH Secondly , how can a renowned institution such as the World Bank be on the brink of financing a Chinese programme which is tantamount to a common or garden colonisation of Tibet ? 
ENGLISH This has to be prevented and hence this resolution . 
ENGLISH Thirdly , how can the European Union possibly be one to let economic interests prevail in its relations with China ? 
ENGLISH Surely we cannot offer the Tibetan population attention only when it suits us ? 
ENGLISH In sum , Madam President , I would urge you to ensure that a real dialogue is established according to the Dalai Lama' - s five - point peace plan ; it will then be a happy day for Tibet' - s entire population . 
ENGLISH Mr President , Commissioner Verheugen , ladies and gentlemen , tomorrow the World Bank will be taking a decision with very serious implications for Tibet . 
ENGLISH The aim is to provide international support to alleviate the poverty in western China , and surely everyone is prepared in principle to help those who cannot do much to help themselves . 
ENGLISH In the framework of this project , however , 58 000 people are to be forcibly resettled in Tibet . Resettlement on that scale might well gradually turn the Tibetans into a minority in their own homeland , after decades of destruction of their culture and their monasteries , of persecution and threat to life and limb ! 
ENGLISH A fortnight ago , the Members of our Intergroup on Tibet and many other MEPs urged the President of the World Bank in Washington not to go against the Bank' - s own principles for the protection of endangered peoples . 
ENGLISH We have written to the national parliaments , to the ministries of finance in Europe , the USA and other continents , and of course to Commissioner Chris Patten . 
ENGLISH We have urgently requested the members of the Board of the World Bank to study the report drawn by independent inspectors very carefully first . 
ENGLISH For the inspectors seriously doubt whether the resettlement is environmentally correct or socially acceptable because of an irrigation programme . 
ENGLISH If public monies are spent , the justification for doing so must be made just as public . 
ENGLISH Strengthened by its planned membership of WTO , China , as I myself recently found in Beijing , is becoming increasingly aware of its role as an emerging world power . 
ENGLISH But that also implies an obligation to act more responsibly than before and , for instance , to apply the concept of - & # x2018 ; one China -- many systems & # x2019 ; - . 
ENGLISH The full autonomy granted to Tibet must finally be guaranteed . 
ENGLISH That includes freedom of religion , freedom of opinion , cultural and social independence . 
ENGLISH Bilateral talks must be held with authorised leaders . 
ENGLISH The Dalai Lama is available for this at any time . 
ENGLISH As my colleague pointed out , this Nobel peace - prize winner , who is accepted worldwide , is celebrating his 65th birthday today and has been the Tibetans' - leader for precisely 50 years . 
ENGLISH His five - point peace plan , which reflects his profound belief in non - violence , remains as valid as ever . 
ENGLISH It is high time to hold constructive dialogues on that basis . 
ENGLISH On behalf of the EPP Group and the Intergroup on Tibet , I call on all the Members of the European Parliament to support our resolution . 
ENGLISH Only a worldwide protest shortly before the World Bank' - s decision , which is in fact due tomorrow , can prevent things from going seriously off course . 
ENGLISH Tashi delek ! 
ENGLISH Madam President , Commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , we are just about to vote , for the thirteenth time , on a resolution concerning Tibet , and we have to say , if we examine the effect these have had in the past , it is exceptionally poor . 
ENGLISH This is why I am addressing the Commissioner . 
ENGLISH I would like the European Union , with its three powerful institutions , to join forces and appeal to world opinion , the Chinese authorities and especially the World Bank . 
ENGLISH As fellow MEPs have already explained , we need to put a stop to internal colonisation , this brutal murder of the cultural identity of the Tibetan population . 
ENGLISH That is only possible if the World Bank stops financing precisely the opposite , namely the import of Chinese people with a view to destroying Tibet' - s original culture . 
ENGLISH How can we justify spending taxpayers' - money on this kind of practice ? 
ENGLISH I hope you will help us bring about a U - turn , as requested by my fellow MEPs in the amendment ; a U - turn which prescribes that , if there is no change in three years' - time , we will eventually decide to recognise Tibet' - s provisional government rather than continue to tread water . 
ENGLISH In our opinion , it is essential for Parliament to speak out against the World Bank 's decision . 
ENGLISH We call upon the governments to do everything in their power and use every avenue available to them -- economic and otherwise , in view of the fact that China wants to join the WTO etc. -- to ensure that China respects Tibet 's autonomy and that negotiations are resumed as soon as possible between the Chinese Government and the Dalai Lama with the intention of establishing a new statute for Tibet . This is the first point of our conclusions in this resolution . 
ENGLISH The negotiations must be based on the Dalai Lama 's five - point programme , which has our full support . We would also like to wish him a happy birthday . 
ENGLISH Madam President , 50 years on we have been celebrating over the last few years the end of the war , the founding of the United Nations , the founding of the World Health Organisation , the return of independence to the Baltic Nations from the Soviet Empire , but sadly also 50 years on we have to commemorate China 's illegal occupation of Tibet : fifty years of suppression and oppression of the Tibetan people by the Chinese regime . 
ENGLISH That must never be allowed to become a fait accompli hence the amendment to this resolution to put pressure on China , which I warmly support . 
ENGLISH Hence , also , the overall resolution to demand of the World Bank that it withdraw its support for our so - called project which would mean the movement of some 60,000 Chinese into an area currently populated by 4,000 Tibetans making a living with their herds , and the exploitation of Tibet 's natural resources . 
ENGLISH Both actions are immoral , both are against international law , both demand action by this Parliament and this Union on behalf of Tibet and its people . 
ENGLISH Mr President , to begin with , I would like to say that I am speaking today on behalf of the Nordic Green Left Party . 
ENGLISH We think that the Tibetans should have the autonomy that they themselves are striving for . 
ENGLISH We are also concerned about China' - s unwillingness to participate in a dialogue . 
ENGLISH I would like to address the Commissioner and say that I hope that the Commission has very good relations with the representatives of the World Bank . 
ENGLISH Decisions must , of course , be made by no later than tomorrow . 
ENGLISH We have therefore only got an extremely short time in which to influence the World Bank , to which this resolution is , of course , primarily directed . 
ENGLISH It is , of course , usually quite difficult to have any influence on the World Bank at all . 
ENGLISH I would therefore like to be told formally whether it is possible for Parliament to wield any influence at all or whether we should try in the course of the night to get hold of our government representatives . 
ENGLISH The Council is , of course , not represented here to any great extent . 
ENGLISH I have had occasion to witness the situation in Tibet personally . It is far more serious , humiliating and painful than it is possible to describe in this Chamber or at any other meeting . 
ENGLISH That is why it is necessary for a Parliament which is so concerned with human rights and combating xenophobia and racism to call upon China to negotiate another statute recognising the rights of the Tibetans in full and genuinely guaranteeing the full autonomy of the Tibetan people . 
ENGLISH If we continue to sacrifice principles and rights in the name of the economy , apart from making pious declarations of intent in Parliamentary debates it will be extremely difficult to find a genuine solution for the Tibetan people . 
ENGLISH Madam President , the Commission , like Parliament , is deeply concerned about the human rights situation in Tibet . 
ENGLISH We are particularly concerned about respect on the part of the Chinese authorities for the cultural , linguistic and religious identity of the autonomous region of Tibet . 
ENGLISH We have raised this issue repeatedly during the bilateral dialogue with China on the subject of human rights . 
ENGLISH In our view , a direct dialogue between the Dalai Lama and the Chinese authorities is the only realistic way of achieving a lasting and peaceful solution to the issue of Tibet . 
ENGLISH With regard to cooperation , the European Union takes the view that it is in the interest of the Tibetan people that we support aid projects in Tibet , provided the group of ethnic Tibetans benefits directly from them and is given priority in the management of the projects . 
ENGLISH That is precisely what happened in the past when the Chinese authorities gave an official assurance to that effect . 
ENGLISH On the question of the World Bank project , I can inform you that the Commission is not involved in that project . 
ENGLISH If any influence at all can still be brought to bear , it would be up to the Member States to do so . 
ENGLISH Human rights 
ENGLISH The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions : 
ENGLISH B5 - 0630 / 2000 by Mr Sylla and Mr Vinci , on behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left / Nordic Green Left , on Uganda ; 
ENGLISH B5 - 0637 / 2000 by Mrs Maes and Mrs Lambert , on behalf of the Group of the Greens / European Free Alliance , on the abduction of children in Uganda ; 
ENGLISH B5 - 0646 / 2000 by Mr van den Berg , on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists , on the abduction of children in Uganda ; 
ENGLISH Situation in the Moluccas 
ENGLISH B5 - 0609 / 2000 by Mr Belder , on behalf of the Group of the Europe Liberal , Democrat and Reform Party , on the Moluccas ; 
ENGLISH B5 - 0612 / 2000 by Mr Maaten , on behalf of the group of the Europe Liberal , Democrat and Reform Party , on the Moluccas ; 
ENGLISH B5 - 0623 / 2000 by Mrs Maij - Weggen , on behalf of the Group of the Europe People' - s Party ( Christian Democrats ) and European Democrats , on the Moluccas ; 
ENGLISH B5 - 0643 / 2000 by Mrs McKenna and Mrs Langendijk , on behalf of the Group of the Greens / European Free Alliance , on the Moluccas ; 
ENGLISH B5 - 0647 / 2000 by Mr van den Berg , on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists , on the Moluccas ; 
ENGLISH Death penalty in the United States 
ENGLISH B5 - 0613 / 2000 by Mrs Malmström , Mr Haarder and Mr Watson , on behalf of the Group of the Europe Liberal , Democrat and Reform Party , on the death penalty in the United States and the case of the Italian - American citizen Derek Rocco Barnabei ; 
ENGLISH B5 - 0619 / 2000 by Mr Dupuis and others , on behalf of the Technical Group of Independent Members -- Mixed Group , on the forthcoming execution of Derek Rocco Barnabei in Virginia ; 
ENGLISH B5 - 0624 / 2000 by Mr Salafranca Sánchez - Neyra and others , on behalf of the Group of the Europe People' - s Party ( Christian Democrats ) and European Democrats , on the death penalty in the United States ; 
ENGLISH B5 - 0631 / 2000 by Mr Cossutta and others , on behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left / Nordic Green Left , on the death penalty in the United States and the case of Mr Derek Rocco Barnabei ; 
ENGLISH B5 - 0638 / 2000 by Mrs Maes and others , on behalf of the Group of the Greens / European Free Alliance , on the death penalty ; 
ENGLISH B5 - 0648 / 2000 by Mr Veltroni and Mrs Díez González , on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists , on the death penalty in the United States and in particular the case of Rocco Barnabei ; 
ENGLISH Hooligans 
ENGLISH B5 - 0625 / 2000 by Mr Van Hecke and others , on behalf of the Group of the Europe People' - s Party ( Christian Democrats ) and European Democrats , on hooliganism during Euro 2000 ; 
ENGLISH B5 - 0632 / 2000 by Mr Papayannakis , Mr Sylla and Mr Cossutta , on behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left -- Nordic Green Left , on hooliganism during Euro 2000 ; 
ENGLISH B5 - 0649 / 2000 by Mr Desama and Mr van den Berg , on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists , on hooliganism during Euro 2000 ; 
ENGLISH Iraq 
ENGLISH B5 - 0614 / 2000 by Baroness Nicholson of Winterbourne , on behalf of the Group of the Europe Liberal , Democrat and Reform Party , on Iraq ; 
ENGLISH B5 - 0618 / 2000 by Mrs Muscardini and Mr Andrews , on behalf of the Union for a Europe of Nations Group , on Iraq ; 
ENGLISH B5 - 626 / 2000 by Mr Khanbhai and others , on behalf of the Group of the Europe People' - s Party ( Christian Democrats ) and European Democrats , on Iraq ; 
ENGLISH B5 - 633 / 2000 by Mrs Morgantini and others , on behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left / Nordic Green Left , on Iraq ; 
ENGLISH B5 - 0639 / 2000 by Mrs McKenna and others , on behalf of the Group of the Greens / European Free Alliance , on the United Nations embargo in Iraq ; 
ENGLISH B5 - 0650 / 2000 by Mr Sakellariou , on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists , on the situation in Iraq ; 
ENGLISH Child soldiers in Uganda 
ENGLISH Madam President , Commissioner , one could say a lot about this issue . 
ENGLISH Firstly , I hope , in particular , that the Council and the Commission will be active when it comes to also taking up this issue in the Security Council when the action plan concerning children in armed conflicts will be debated at the end of this month . 
ENGLISH Secondly , we have today noted with satisfaction that attempts are being made to reach a common solution to at least one other conflict regarding child soldiers . 
ENGLISH Thirdly , we can confirm that we have made a certain amount of general progress with regard to child soldiers . 
ENGLISH We have the voluntary Supplementary Protocol against Child Soldiers and the Activities in Africa . 
ENGLISH I would ask the House to support this resolution . 
ENGLISH Madam President , the situation in Northern Uganda and Southern Sudan is the setting for the drama of the child - soldiers . 
ENGLISH The aim of my speech and of the resolution which has just been tabled is to prompt Parliament and the institutions to adopt ongoing initiatives which do more than just respond to moments of crisis . 
ENGLISH Their favourite victims are children and adolescents because they are vulnerable and easily influenced . 
ENGLISH To date , approximately 60 % of the soldiers in the Lord 's Resistance Army are children under the age of 16 . 
ENGLISH The strategy is precisely to manipulate the children and subject them to brutal force so that they will in turn be able to kill and torture others . 
ENGLISH Adolescent girls are given to the rebels as wives , but the most noticeable thing is that not even the Nairobi Agreements between Uganda and the Sudan last December have caused the LRA to change its attitude . 
ENGLISH During the last few days , I have had the opportunity to talk to one of the girls who has escaped from the fields of Southern Sudan , who confirmed that the LRA has no intention of changing its position . 
ENGLISH Further evidence of this is the funeral of John Baptista Ochaia , the representative of the Chairman of Kitgum district council , who died the day before yesterday from wounds received during an LRA ambush , which took place today in Uganda . 
ENGLISH It is therefore unacceptable that the European authorities and many commercial entities should maintain an attitude almost of tacit approval of this situation , without making any attempt to break the circle which is robbing a generation of its future . 
ENGLISH However , we have reached another level of barbarism and abjectness when children are used to fight and kill or be killed . 
ENGLISH Nor does it hesitate to sexually exploit women and girls . 
ENGLISH When these children survive , it must be said , they are in any case scarred for life . 
ENGLISH It takes time , patience and love to restore their hope . 
ENGLISH This is why we must increase aid and support for UNICEF , which has set up an action programme enabling children to return to a normal life . 
ENGLISH Madam President , we must also stop pussyfooting around . 
ENGLISH In my opinion , this amounts to collusion , which makes Sudan just as guilty . 
ENGLISH And Parliament must intervene to urge the Ugandan Government to find a peaceful solution to this conflict in the north of Uganda , which , let me remind you , has been the cause of 100 000 deaths in 15 years . 
ENGLISH The whole population is waiting for this solution and all the children are hoping for it . 
ENGLISH The Security Council must hear this plea . 
ENGLISH Madam President , I am really pleased that this resolution has come about . 
ENGLISH Some weeks ago , a documentary from Southern Sudan was shown on Swedish television . 
ENGLISH This documentary claimed that foreign investors and oil companies , including an oil company from my home country , Sweden , are being protected by troops which make use of child soldiers . 
ENGLISH These accusations have also been supported by Amnesty International , which has explained that certain oil revenues are also used to finance the civil war in Southern Sudan . 
ENGLISH There , they use child soldiers from Uganda , who are forced into armed conflict . 
ENGLISH We must put pressure on the international oil companies and on investors . 
ENGLISH We must , as is stated in point 8 of the resolution , strongly urge these companies to cease their activities in Sudan until a peaceful solution to the conflict has been found . 
ENGLISH What is clear is that despite the 1999 Nairobi Agreement , it has not been possible to apply this agreement in an adequate manner . 
ENGLISH This brings us to the question of the EU' - s authority and the willingness on the part of the Member States to act as a united front in that region . 
ENGLISH I would ask Commissioner Verheugen specifically whether he is absolutely clear about the point mentioned in the resolution , that of bringing the investments in both oil and oil pipelines in Sudan to a halt for the time being . 
ENGLISH If we exert pressure to bring about peace and make sure we gain control in that northern region , this could lead to very concrete steps within a foreign policy which combines the aid component , the foreign component and the trade component . 
ENGLISH Such action is a matter of great priority . 
ENGLISH At the moment , we only see these figures and examples increase , and at the same time , we notice that we are exerting too little pressure , although we have more clout there than we have made use of to date . 
ENGLISH This brings me to the wider issue of the United Nations . 
ENGLISH The protocol was accepted in the General Assembly in May . 
ENGLISH In July , a debate will be held in the Security Council . 
ENGLISH This would , of course , be a wonderful example of a Europe which does not only hold forth internally , but also takes steps externally . We , all the European Member States together , are very much in favour of the eighteen years , swift conclusion by signature and effective , coordinated action by the different countries where matters such as education and the re - integration of child soldiers are concerned . 
ENGLISH We do a great deal financially in this respect in different countries . 
ENGLISH We have a good reputation there . 
ENGLISH It would be beneficial if we could act under one banner and with one voice . 
ENGLISH I would be interested to find out from Commissioner Verheugen how he rates our chance of success in July . 
ENGLISH Madam President , I was in Uganda in January when some of the abducted little girls who were put into the army by the LRA were released . 
ENGLISH Many of these young girls lose sight of their families and are gone for many years from their own homes . 
ENGLISH As a result of rape and abuse they become mothers themselves , which further alienates them from the communities from which they have been so brutally taken . 
ENGLISH However many finely - worded resolutions we have , as long as we in the Community fail to get to grips with the issues relating to children in our own community , we do not have a strong voice to raise our concerns about this . 
ENGLISH Many of our policies affect children 's rights and interests but this week Commissioner Prodi said he did not feel it was necessary to have a dedicated unit looking at children 's rights within the Community . 
ENGLISH Situation in the Moluccas 
ENGLISH Madam President , the Moluccas require our attention once again . 
ENGLISH After a relatively quiet period , the recent arrival of a few thousand Jihad fighters who aim to enforce the Islam religion on the Moluccan islands has led to renewed escalations of violence . 
ENGLISH The peaceful coexistence of Muslims and Christians , which lasted for years , seems to be broken for good . 
ENGLISH The brave attitude of President Wahid should not go unmentioned . 
ENGLISH Last week , he even dared criticise the position of the members of parliament . 
ENGLISH If it were up to the Indonesian President , there would be hope for a peaceful future on the Moluccas . 
ENGLISH However , the dark forces that still pervade the administrative apparatus , namely within the army , police and government , have a very destabilising effect on the situation . 
ENGLISH It still requires a great deal of effort to identify the fundamentalist elements of whatever religious grouping . 
ENGLISH I would like to make a few specific recommendations to the Indonesian Government . 
ENGLISH The stark differences of opinion within the region' - s own army and police seem to sabotage Indonesia' - s efforts to end conflict off its own bat . 
ENGLISH Finally , I would like to ask your attention for the victims of these conflicts , namely the ordinary citizens . 
ENGLISH In this conflict , we should not only spend time pointing the finger , we should first and foremost supply adequate aid to the refugees . 
ENGLISH A humanitarian corridor is essential in this respect . 
ENGLISH We wholeheartedly back the request to the Commission and Member States to give generously . 
ENGLISH The lack of political and economic interests in that region should not determine the level of aid . 
ENGLISH This is about relieving the real suffering that is pervading the Moluccas . 
ENGLISH Madam President , I wonder whether history is repeating itself in Indonesia . 
ENGLISH The bloody confrontations between Muslims and Christians are jeopardising safety within the Moluccas . 
ENGLISH Thousands of people have been killed or have taken refuge , and the new fragile democratisation process , which has been initiated so ambitiously by the Wahid government , is under enormous threat . 
ENGLISH This is reminiscent of East Timor only a few months ago . 
ENGLISH As an MEP visiting with the observation delegation , I saw for myself how harrowing the effects of this can be . 
ENGLISH We need to realise that the violence within the Moluccas is threatening stability within the entire region . 
ENGLISH It is therefore vital that the international community offer immediate financial and moral support in order to solve the problems in Indonesia . 
ENGLISH The international community also has a duty to monitor the situation closely on a permanent basis and help the government there to end this human tragedy in whatever way it can . 
ENGLISH Madam President , as rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs , Human Rights , Common Security and Defence Policy reporting on Indonesia , I did hesitate for a moment before I tabled this resolution because we will certainly be having a huge debate on the relationship between the European Union and Indonesia in the autumn . 
ENGLISH However , the situation on the Moluccas is so critical that we need to treat it as an urgent matter . 
ENGLISH After a few months of peace and quiet in that area , violence has flared up again over the past few weeks , and once again , dozens of people have been killed and once again , thousand of people have fled . 
ENGLISH The tragedy of the boat filled with refugees travelling from Duma on Halmahera has probably claimed the lives of up to five hundred people . 
ENGLISH Only yesterday , the Jihad fighters burnt down two housing estates in Ambon . 
ENGLISH In that area , more than three thousand have now been killed and more than one hundred thousand people have fled . 
ENGLISH Madam President , despite this tragedy , I believe we ought to pledge our support to President Wahid and Vice - President Sukarnoputri . 
ENGLISH It is not they , but the opposition powers working against this government that seem to aggravate the situation within the Moluccas . 
ENGLISH It seems that the Jihad militiamen are being financed and armed by these groups , and sometimes backed by regional military forces , which are , in fact , supposed to protect the population . 
ENGLISH In our opinion , however , the Indonesian government should intervene more powerfully in order to protect the Moluccan population . 
ENGLISH We also believe that international observers , journalists and aid workers should be granted access to the area in order to help the Moluccan citizens . 
ENGLISH But more than anything , the EU should adopt a clear stance , just as the United States has done , and the EU should step up its aid efforts for the victims . 
ENGLISH Madam President , our green colleagues have tabled a number of amendments which may have been compiled with the best of intentions but are to my mind counterproductive , because they might be playing into the hands of the powers working against the government , i.e. those who are helping to stage the violent attacks on the Moluccas . 
ENGLISH I therefore reject the amendment to Article 7 ( a ) and would ask the MEPs of the other groups to do the same . 
ENGLISH This is also the thrust of the resolution and I would like a sound response from the European Commission . 
ENGLISH Madam President , ladies and gentlemen , it is becoming increasingly clear that the violence on the Moluccas is not a chaotic , spontaneous fight between the local population , between local Muslims and Christians . 
ENGLISH It is a brutal power struggle and well - directed fight between sections of the army , between the government and government opponents , at the expense of the local population . 
ENGLISH On the one hand there is Laskar Jihad , a group of fanatical Muslims backed by sections of the army . 
ENGLISH On the other hand there are special police troops , which back the Christians . 
ENGLISH In other words , the security apparatus which should guarantee stability , is divided over two camps . 
ENGLISH In my opinion , the message which the European Parliament should give President Wahid -- and in this sense I hope I can reassure Mrs Maij - Weggen -- is that we will remain critical of the progress and speed of reforms , the status of human rights and the way in which the government protects the citizens on the Moluccas . 
ENGLISH However , we must also let him know that we support him in his fight against those sections of the army which are of course trying to undermine democratic reform , in his battle against people like Amien Rais , the chairman of the People' - s Consultative Assembly who , for example , referred to young people devoted to the Laskar Jihad as the heart of the nation . 
ENGLISH In that sense , he deserves our support , but I also want us to remain critical about issues which are not going so well yet in Indonesia . 
ENGLISH Madam President , on behalf of the Socialist Group , I would like to endorse what Mrs Maij - Weggen stated . 
ENGLISH It is vital to support the Wahid government at present . 
ENGLISH In plain terms -- and I think the European Commission and the Council are taking a sensible stance here - this support entails tracking down specific resources in order to support that government in its attempt to pacify and to actively intervene . 
ENGLISH This is our urgent request . 
ENGLISH We are also very critical of the situation in that region and very concerned for the Moluccan community in the Netherlands . We particularly empathise with the emotional turmoil and anxiety they are experiencing . 
ENGLISH We are in favour of granting Wahid support , because the moment we involve international observers or commit other forms of aid without Wahid' - s knowledge , we will be intervening and undermining his actions . 
ENGLISH In this sense , I clearly endorse the PPE' - s stance and would strongly urge this House to show great concern , and great willingness to provide support , but via Wahid , and also prescribe requirements to be met , again via him , because we need to play the game through him for the time being . 
ENGLISH Madam President , I think that Mrs Maij - Weggen is quite right to call the situation catastrophic . 
ENGLISH It is , in fact , a complex situation , in which many people have died . The question that arises is why communities that had been co - existing relatively peacefully should suddenly shift to this level of tension and threats . 
ENGLISH I think that certain forces are at work behind these actions , and there is a significant similarity between a certain type of behaviour that we are now seeing in the Moluccas and the events we recently witnessed in East Timor . 
ENGLISH From this point of view , I think that the references in the compromise motion for a resolution , which deserves our total support , are most timely . 
ENGLISH Death penalty in the United States 
ENGLISH Madam President , in our resolution on the death penalty which we agreed with the other groups , we appealed to the Governor of Virginia to spare the life of a person sentenced to death . 
ENGLISH The name of the Governor of Virginia has been missed off the list of recipients of the resolution . 
ENGLISH Please would you ensure that the Governor of Virginia 's name is inserted at the end of the text of our resolution , for our appeal is addressed precisely to him . 
ENGLISH Yes , Mr Manisco , you are absolutely right . 
ENGLISH In the text of the resolution , reference was made to this State . 
ENGLISH Technically speaking , it would therefore be appropriate to communicate it to the Governor of Virginia and it will therefore be put to the vote with this amendment . 
ENGLISH Madam President , we can all put our signatures to what is written in the resolution . 
ENGLISH We know that the United Nations' - Commission for Human Rights requested a moratorium in April last year . 
ENGLISH This year , this demand was repeated . 
ENGLISH They also requested all the States which still had the death penalty progressively to reduce the number of crimes for which the death penalty is imposed . 
ENGLISH We have many shocking figures relating to the number of people that are still awaiting the death penalty in the United States . 
ENGLISH According to the information that I have , this involves 3 670 - people . 
ENGLISH In the resolution , we point to the prevailing legal uncertainty in the present cases . 
ENGLISH Therefore , a moratorium is necessary in all cases , even those that are not mentioned in the resolution . 
ENGLISH We are also given hope by the fact that the issue of the death penalty in the United States has been given a completely new political importance . 
ENGLISH I also value the work that the human rights organisations have done to bring this issue to the fore . 
ENGLISH Mr President , Commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , Mrs Thors has already said this , there is unanimity in this House in support of this resolution . 
ENGLISH We must also question the actions of the European Union and its ability to pursue this initiative in favour of the international moratorium alongside the United Nations and the international community . 
ENGLISH We know the difficulties encountered by our institutions , mainly due to their odd nature , in particular with regard to foreign policy , an area under the responsibility of a Commissioner , a High Representative and fifteen Foreign Ministers . 
ENGLISH To avoid repeating last year' - s failure at the United Nations , we must urgently coordinate the actions of the European Union . 
ENGLISH To this end , I have presented an amendment asking that this policy within the United Nations in favour of the establishment of a universal moratorium be coordinated by the High Representative for Common Foreign and Security Policy . 
ENGLISH Mr President , this House is appealing to the Governor of Virginia to spare the life of a man , Derek Rocco Barnabei , sentenced to death , who is in all probability innocent . 
ENGLISH As we debate our resolution , in a death cell in the same State , they are sterilising the needles which will be used to administer the lethal injection which , in a few hours' time , will kill Michael Clagget , probably guilty of multiple murders committed many years ago . 
ENGLISH We have adopted countless resolutions during these last two parliamentary terms in a vain attempt to put an end to the death penalty in the United States and elsewhere . 
ENGLISH I do not know whether George W. Bush boasts of this record , but I do know -- because he told me in a letter he sent me dated 22 March -- that he is confident that he will be able to fulfil the highest obligations of a fair and errorless justice . 
ENGLISH The resolution before Parliament notes the fresh debate which is currently in progress in the United States , not on the abolition of the death penalty at all but on a moratorium intended to ensure a more reliable but no less merciless system . 
ENGLISH We may well have done the right thing , but I fear , as the American Herald Tribune said recently , that these endeavours of ours are destined to remain unheeded , a dead letter , and so , the time may well have come -- not for boycotts and sanctions , which are abhorrent to us -- but , for example , to promote European tourism only in the dozen States of America which do not inflict the death penalty . 
ENGLISH There would be a serious , extremely serious risk of retaliation from the United States : if we stay away from Donald Duck or Disneyworld in Florida the Americans would boycott the Mona Lisa in the Louvre . 
ENGLISH The time has come for us to take this risk in a last attempt to put an end to this barbaric practice which is such an insult to the human family . 
ENGLISH Mr President , the United States , we recall , is the country of the world which has had , for the longest time , an entrenched and justiciable bill of rights . 
ENGLISH It is therefore a horrible irony that the United States is one of the few countries in the developed world which still retains and practises the use of the death penalty . 
ENGLISH We appeal for his life today , but he is also a symbol of a practice which we find appalling and which we know to be going on in many parts of the United States . 
ENGLISH I am myself a great lover of the United States and many aspects of its way of life . 
ENGLISH I have been a frequent visitor to the law school of the University of Texas and to other law schools in the United States . 
ENGLISH I admire them very much , but I am really sad to see that state and its governor practising this so frequently and boasting of it in presidential campaigns . 
ENGLISH Mr President , the case of Derek Rocco Barnabei makes our resolution all the more urgent . 
ENGLISH In this specific case , there are reasons to suspect that there has been a miscarriage of justice . 
ENGLISH Clearly , where the death penalty is involved a miscarriage of justice is particularly serious ; let us not forget that miscarriages of justice in similar cases have subsequently been acknowledged , and it was no coincidence that the defendants in these cases were people who could not afford an expensive attorney . 
ENGLISH Therefore , we call for a repeal of this sentence and , in consideration of the petition signed by an extremely large number of Members over the last few days , we call upon the Presidency of Parliament to write to the authorities responsible immediately , insisting that they attend to the matter and , of course , insisting too that the death penalty is abolished in the United States , so admirable a country in so many other respects . 
ENGLISH And it is precisely these merits that make the continuation of this barbaric ritual so very shocking . 
ENGLISH Hooliganism 
ENGLISH Mr President , football is a festival . 
ENGLISH This is the motto under which Belgium and the Netherlands staged Euro 2000 over the past three weeks . 
ENGLISH In sporting terms , it was indeed a festival , except perhaps for our Italian friends . 
ENGLISH However , the festival was , once again , overshadowed by the behaviour of some alleged supporters . 
ENGLISH Serious riots broke out , especially before and after the Germany - England match . 
ENGLISH In total , 173 people ended up in hospital , 1400 arrests were made and 500 English supporters were repatriated by C 130 aircraft . 
ENGLISH Some people , including certain delegates in this House , are trying to trivialise the issue . 
ENGLISH Surely a country cannot take on the appearance of a police state for days on end because of a football championship ? 
ENGLISH It is high time the national governments took preventive measures in order to keep the hooligan hard - core at home . 
ENGLISH Germany set a good example in this respect . 
ENGLISH In concrete terms , so - called football supporters who have been arrested previously on account of involvement in football violence should be issued with a travel ban . 
ENGLISH It is therefore not primarily a case of more or less border control , but of efficient and coherent police cooperation . 
ENGLISH Let us draw the right conclusions from the events in Brussels and Charleroi . 
ENGLISH There has never been a greater need for hard measures and sound cooperation in order to harness this mindless violence . 
ENGLISH Hooliganism has transcended all borders , both literally and figuratively speaking . 
ENGLISH Mr President , too many tragedies have taken place , both inside and outside stadiums : incidents which are evidence of the imbalance and social unease of individuals , a culture where strength is what matters and violence prevails over reason . 
ENGLISH The resolution reiterates Parliament 's concern over the spread of hooliganism , and calls for preventive measures which I support . 
ENGLISH However , it is crucial that in this , of all situations , the difficulty of their task does not make the forces of the law lose their heads as well . 
ENGLISH At this point , I would like to protest at the behaviour of the Dutch police towards some Italian journalists who were filming the humiliating treatment of a group of disabled people who were being carried up the steps because there were not enough free seats for them . 
ENGLISH The journalists were prevented from doing their job and were beaten up , thrown to the ground and arrested . 
ENGLISH The film shown this morning here in Parliament contained pictures which leave no doubt as to the express intention of the police to suppress the freedom of the press . 
ENGLISH Different interpretations have been given of the event , and so we call upon the Dutch authorities to hold an inquiry in order to find out who was responsible , and we demand that this sort of incident is never repeated . 
ENGLISH Mr President , this debate is not entitled hooligans but Euro 2000, and this is great . 
ENGLISH The whole of Europe managed to stage a huge festival of football where the Belgian and Dutch authorities were the first to back this idea and which attracted huge numbers of football supporters from Europe . 
ENGLISH In practice , the festival turned out to be a huge success all - round , and this resolution rightly mentions that we should congratulate the Dutch and Belgian authorities on this achievement . 
ENGLISH There is also a small group of hooligans which has been operating for a while and which clearly aims to spoil this kind of festival . 
ENGLISH They managed to do this to a very limited extent . 
ENGLISH And they still manage to do this at some level . This costs a great deal of money , is a real nuisance and we therefore endorse this resolution . 
ENGLISH We also back the initiative from the Belgian and Dutch Home Affairs Ministers , which attempts to introduce travel bans for this kind of hooligan when high - risk events are due to take place . 
ENGLISH What is clear is that MEPs have received information from a variety of sources about the incident at De Kuip Stadium in Rotterdam and as a result , some have the impression that the situation got out of hand in a big way and that the incident was terrible , and they formed their opinions based on this information . 
ENGLISH Others , who gained their information from other sources , have the impression that the situation got out hand there but not to such a reprehensible extent . 
ENGLISH As a Dutchman , I would have liked to see the Netherlands become the European champions , of course , and I congratulate the French warmly on their victory . What I would say though is that if some delegates here got the impression , based on footage they saw , that certain incidents got out of hand , then I do not think -- and the same goes for the Netherlands -- that we should ( a ) tar the whole of Euro 2000 with the same brush , and ( b ) act as if the whole festival was ruined as a result . 
ENGLISH What we should do is recognise that something is wrong and ask for all the facts to be made known . 
ENGLISH I am therefore very much in favour of the Dutch authorities launching a thorough inquiry . 
ENGLISH Fortunately , Prime Minister Kok has assented to this and I would like to pass my final verdict on the basis of these facts . 
ENGLISH I should right away like to express my sympathy and concern for our Italian fellow MEPs at this stage . 
ENGLISH This goes without saying , but I do want to wait until I have all these facts at my fingertips before I pass judgement . 
ENGLISH Mr President , I will start by declaring an interest , because I have been a Class 1 football referee for 18 years now and I am attached to the English FA , and also by congratulating both France for winning the Euro 2000 championship in such a fantastic way , and alas , begrudgingly Germany for winning the World Cup bid for 2006 . 
ENGLISH I also want to make sure that we actually condemn hooligans in a very strong way in this House ; all hooligans whatever country they come from and whatever their background . 
ENGLISH It was a great shame in fact that the Belgian police overreacted in such a way by clearing bars of decent ordinary football - loving supporters , taking them with the dross that are the football hooligans . 
ENGLISH The question is : what message was sent out by the football authorities going back a number of months before the Euro 2000 championship ? 
ENGLISH We had a problem with two Leeds fans being murdered in a UEFA Cup game in Istanbul against Galatasaray , yet no action was taken against Galatasaray -- they were not thrown out of the UEFA Cup . 
ENGLISH Then we have the inaction by the British government , which chose not to impose any extra sanctions on stopping people from travelling , even though they knew they might cause trouble . 
ENGLISH So all these factors actually led to a number of people thinking : " Well this Euro 2000 championship is a soft touch . 
ENGLISH We should be allowed to go there , and we are going to go and have a good fight " , instead of watching the wonderful festival of football that it should have been . 
ENGLISH This Parliament and others on the outside should step back , because we have a breathing space now where we can take a reasoned view of what actions we should realistically take against football hooligans , and compare that with the rights of people to freely move about our continent . 
ENGLISH Mr President , I would like to point out that this resolution is entitled 'Euro 2000' , not 'Hooliganism' as it might seem . 
ENGLISH And I would add that we have a great responsibility as politicians and Members of Parliament towards the sporting world , in particular the world of football : the responsibility never to lose sight of the fact that it is a merely a game . 
ENGLISH We must therefore be concerned when the game is unduly weighed down by either economic interests or excessively emotive behaviour , neither of which must be encouraged in any way by the political world . 
ENGLISH In my opinion , we must continually remind our young people , including those who are the most fervent fans , those who are most emotionally involved in these events , that football is a game . 
ENGLISH I would argue that whenever there is a good match , such as those we have seen during Euro 2000, we have all contributed to its success . 
ENGLISH I also understand why these are particularly difficult events for the authorities to organise -- I remember the Heysel stadium tragedy -- and we can therefore congratulate ourselves on the organisation of Euro 2000 . 
ENGLISH However , against this positive backcloth let us consider the Rotterdam incident , for it took place in the extremely serious context of the provision of access to these events for disabled people . This should be carried out calmly and the disabled people made to feel welcome . 
ENGLISH Moreover , we were astonished by the brutality of the police in beating up journalists who were drawing attention to an extremely serious issue regarding the provision of access and assistance for disabled people . 
ENGLISH I would stress that we are confident that the authorities had in no way encouraged such incidents and that it was the result of seriously inappropriate behaviour on the part of the forces of the law . 
ENGLISH I therefore urge all the Members not to turn this into a national issue , for I consider that the content of the joint resolution is acceptable to all and can be adopted unanimously . 
ENGLISH Thank you , ladies and gentlemen . 
ENGLISH Since several of you have made repeated references to the title of the item on the agenda , so that you do not waste any more time on an error , I will waste some time with a clarification . 
ENGLISH The item on the agenda as approved by the House is - 'Hooligans' - . 
ENGLISH The title of the resolution may be the one which you have mentioned , of course , but on the agenda it appears as - 'Hooligans' - , within the section on human rights . 
ENGLISH Mr President , the joint resolution which we are about to put to the vote is , in my opinion , particularly well - balanced . 
ENGLISH Notably , the Rotterdam incident does not alter our view of the human rights record or the quality of democracy in Holland , which I consider to be among the most liberal countries in the world , although it was treated as serious , both in terms of the shameful treatment of the disabled people and because of the violence against the journalists who were merely doing their duty . 
ENGLISH Their nationality is of little importance . 
ENGLISH The European Union , through its highest expression of democracy , the European Parliament , condemns the occurrence of such an incident within its borders . 
ENGLISH This is the best approach to take on the matter . 
ENGLISH On the other hand , particularly in its urgent resolutions , the European Union does not hold back in expressing stringent positions on the conduct of other countries or events taking place in other parts of the world where human rights are violated . 
ENGLISH Would it not lose all credibility if it did not also criticise similar events within its borders ? 
ENGLISH Mr President , I can be brief about the championship itself : France is a fine European champion and the fear that the situation was going to get out of hand on a massive scale has at any rate been exaggerated despite a number of very regrettable incidents referred to by Mr Van Hecke , involving mainly English supporters 
ENGLISH After the final -- and the entire debate seems to focus on this part of the championship now , but I suppose , unfortunately , this is how it is -- a number of incidents occurred which , in my view , are just not on , and I am mainly referring to the rough treatment of the journalists , which at times was too rough . 
ENGLISH But there is still a great deal of uncertainty as to what happened before this and what caused it . 
ENGLISH What exactly happened to the disabled Italian supporters ? 
ENGLISH Were people informed that so many would turn up ? 
ENGLISH I am saying this as a regular visitor to De Kuip Stadium and I know that there is space for disabled supporters at De Kuip , but not for an unlimited number . 
ENGLISH Did these handicapped supporters not want to be filmed or were they not allowed to be filmed ? 
ENGLISH These kinds of questions need to be investigated and the Dutch Government has assented to such an investigation . 
ENGLISH Accordingly , my group will vote against any part of the resolution in which such a judgement has been passed . 
ENGLISH It is absolutely not worth it . 
ENGLISH In this way , serious matters which need to be investigated would be called into question . 
ENGLISH My view is : something happened , which is now being investigated , but I would urge you to keep a sense of perspective . 
ENGLISH , Mr President , thank you for reminding us that in fact the title of the item on the agenda that we are examining is hooliganism . 
ENGLISH Two months ago , I addressed Parliament regarding the need to take action against the crimes that hooligans would undoubtedly commit during Euro 2000 . 
ENGLISH The measures taken by the Belgian authorities served to limit the clearly racist , xenophobic and homophobic violence of the hooligans . 
ENGLISH It is therefore becoming imperative to consider measures to deal with the instigators of such violent crimes , who are often manipulated by extremist right - wing movements . 
ENGLISH It is still too easy for hooligans to move around with complete impunity within the countries of the European Union . 
ENGLISH Instant sanctions must be taken in the countries where they commit crimes . 
ENGLISH Those who are identified and on file as having committed assault must be banned from entering stadiums during major sporting events . 
ENGLISH Supporters' - clubs and football clubs must be made to take greater responsibility , as it must be said that they sometimes fan the flames . 
ENGLISH The campaign by the French Minister for Youth Affairs and Sport , Mrs Marie - Georges Buffet made them take greater responsibility and this action has borne fruit . 
ENGLISH I therefore believe that Parliament can provide a real impetus for the Member States and the UEFA to implement such measures immediately , as the red card , Mr President , must admittedly be applied on the pitch , but must also be applied with regard to hooligans , both in and outside the stadium . 
ENGLISH Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , needless to say , all forms of violence should be denounced , including the outrageous expressions of hooliganism during Euro 2000 . 
ENGLISH Because of this , we have been unable to emphasise sufficiently how extraordinarily well - organised Euro 2000 was , indeed the standard of organisation will turn Euro 2000 into an unforgettable experience for millions of people . 
ENGLISH As representative of one of the host nations , I would like to congratulate everyone who was involved on the organisational side and in the enforcement of law and order . 
ENGLISH The success of Euro 2000 has shown that small nations are capable of great things and this should not be overshadowed by the wanton behaviour of a minority . 
ENGLISH Not only was Euro 2000 a superb festival of football , it was also a festival of solidarity among the citizens of the European Union , whom it brought closer together . 
ENGLISH Mr President , on Monday , the Liberal Group voted against including this item on the agenda and if I now consider the resolution , I believe we were right to do so . 
ENGLISH Extending congratulations in a resolution is very civilised , of course , but hardly the task of this Parliament . 
ENGLISH The issue of hooligans cannot be termed urgent because this phenomenon has been around for years . I believe that , nevertheless , Parliament should look into this , but not as a matter of urgency . 
ENGLISH I would now like to say a few words on the events which unfolded in Rotterdam . 
ENGLISH Naturally , an investigation is necessary because the accusations are very serious . 
ENGLISH The Dutch Public Prosecutor is involved in this matter and so it is completely premature on the part of this Parliament to pass a verdict on the incident at this stage . 
ENGLISH In my opinion , this is a long way off , and it is inappropriate to pass political judgement at a time when a Public Prosecutor is looking into a matter . 
ENGLISH Consequently , I believe that the amendments pertaining to this matter should be rejected . 
ENGLISH We could , of course , come back to them once it has become clear that human rights were violated , but I do think that passing such a verdict would be overstepping the mark at this stage . 
ENGLISH Mr President , first of all , I would like to turn to Mr Heaton - Harris who , about a month ago now , thought that the sporting event at Charleroi would have to be cancelled : there would , he claimed , be terrible trouble . 
ENGLISH I would say to him , very sportingly , as he was once a referee , that I was right to blow the whistle on him then . 
ENGLISH Secondly , I believe that we should look at this matter in depth and that if , as the resolution indicates , we could achieve greater cooperation between the various Member States during an event such as Euro 2000, progress would be made . 
ENGLISH If , in future , we could manage to prevent repeat offenders from attending other events , and if , finally , as Mr Fodé Sylla indicated earlier , we were able to monitor a subject such as that in order to develop new teaching on behaviour in stadiums , then sport , and not political concern , would win through . 
ENGLISH I will end , Mr President , by hoping that the content and pace of my speech have been as you requested , that is , on a human scale . 
ENGLISH Iraq 
ENGLISH Mr President , the United Nations has been emasculated by two members of the Security Council on the issue of sanctions on Iraq . 
ENGLISH Kofi Annan is a good and honourable man . 
ENGLISH However , he should resign in the knowledge that the world is utterly opposed to the disproportionate severity of these sanctions . 
ENGLISH The EU must speak out against sanctions which amount to virtual genocide . 
ENGLISH He is still there ten years later . 
ENGLISH In fact , the real purpose of the sanctions is to control oil and provide a training ground for US and British pilots so they can ensure the survival of the military - industrial complexes in both the US and Britain . 
ENGLISH On my recent visit to Iraq I saw children die of respiratory infections , diarrhoea , leukaemia , gastro - enteritis and malnutrition . 
ENGLISH We must remember that this is a country that has the second largest oil reserve in the world . 
ENGLISH Operating theatres have raw sewage dripping in , and out - of - date equipment . 
ENGLISH We are witnessing the slow strangulation of a wonderful nation and a wonderful people . 
ENGLISH I am a friend of Islam and I think we should stop , in this European Union and the European Parliament , demonising the Arabs and demonising Islam . 
ENGLISH Mr President , we had originally submitted a text on the same subject and with the same purport , but this text gives a far more balanced view than the text of the so - called joint resolution . 
ENGLISH I would have far preferred discussing a text which strikes more of a balance . 
ENGLISH Why is it then that this text has not been published ? We have withdrawn our signatures after all . 
ENGLISH Mrs Maes , perhaps we do not understand each other very well , but if you have withdrawn your signature from the joint resolution , or have not signed it , the text remains alive and will be put to the vote in accordance with the rules in force . 
ENGLISH Is this also being distributed ? 
ENGLISH Is it available , because I have noticed that many MEPs have not seen this text ? 
ENGLISH Yes , of course . 
ENGLISH We were not aware that there was the least problem with distribution , but if you say so , we will check and we will have the text distributed . 
ENGLISH Mr President , Iraq was at war with Iran from 1980 to 1989 . 
ENGLISH During this time the USA and EU supported Iraq since we perceived Iran as the real threat to the Middle East . 
ENGLISH This was wrong and unacceptable . 
ENGLISH The UN responded by passing Resolution 661 to impose sanctions on Iraq . 
ENGLISH The UN action was justified . 
ENGLISH The USA and Britain imposed a no - fly zone in April 1991 . 
ENGLISH In 1994, Iraq recognised the territorial integrity of Kuwait . 
ENGLISH From 1991 to 1997, UN inspectors -- UNSCOM -- systematically and comprehensively inspected , destroyed and verified Iraq 's capacity to produce weapons of mass destruction . 
ENGLISH The UN representative reported to the UN in 1997 that UNSCOM 's work had covered virtually everything about Iraq . 
ENGLISH The oil for food programme started in 1996 has been excessively bureaucratic and incompetent , resulting in long delays in procuring essential medicines and food supplies . 
ENGLISH Of the USD 28 billion worth of oil revenue over three years , only USD 7 billion has been utilised for imports and USD 12 billion remains frozen in a bank in New York . 
ENGLISH If the sanctions were intended to destroy Iraq 's military capacity , then they have done the job . 
ENGLISH If the sanctions were intended to dislodge Saddam Hussein , this has not still been achieved after ten years . 
ENGLISH However , ten years of sanctions have caused enormous suffering and hardship for the 22 million people of Iraq . 
ENGLISH The intellectual embargo has deprived doctors , teachers and other professionals of the advances in science and technology . 
ENGLISH I believe the European Union must reassess its position in helping those suffering acute hardship . 
ENGLISH There are six EU States -- Germany , France , Italy , Spain , Portugal and Greece -- represented diplomatically in Iraq today . 
ENGLISH These diplomats share the view of the UN Office in Iraq , WHO , Red Cross , and other NGOs that the EU can , through its diplomacy , achieve a breakthrough . 
ENGLISH Our parliamentarians and Commission officials should go on fact - finding missions to Iraq to meet members of the Iraqi Parliament , EU diplomats , international agencies and NGOs . 
ENGLISH Such dialogue will help to establish the facts as they are today and help identify how this deadlock can be broken so that sanctions can be lifted for non - military suppliers . 
ENGLISH I hope that this House will vote in favour of this resolution . 
ENGLISH Mr President , I am convinced that any type of embargo apart from an arms embargo is a violation of human rights and ineffective in combating authoritarian regimes . 
ENGLISH My visit to Iraq made me even more intolerant of the fact that , in the name of the defence of democracy and the rights of the Iraqi people , oppressed by Saddam Hussein , we are killing a people and destroying a country . 
ENGLISH This is intellectual genocide . 
ENGLISH We have seen the victims in the hospitals : children with their mothers who look at you with staring eyes and haunt your sleep ; doctors who watch the agony , powerless to do anything . 
ENGLISH There are no airlines offering flights to Baghdad , although there are no UN resolutions banning such flights either , because the USA and the United Kingdom have declared a no - fly zone . 
ENGLISH We must trust the Iraqi people to bring about democracy in Iraq ! 
ENGLISH One young girl from the Iraqi opposition , Rabye , said to me , while the bombs were falling on her village , 'You are even destroying our dream of building our own democracy ourselves' . 
ENGLISH Mr President , if anyone needs any kind of proof that there is something seriously wrong with the continuing sanctions against Iraq , we just have to look at the number of resignations of high - profile people within the United Nations . 
ENGLISH We can also note the words of Mary Robinson who has strongly condemned what is going on in relation to the sanctions . 
ENGLISH What is happening is that victims , innocent people , women and children , people without any power , without any kind of control whatsoever , are being persecuted . 
ENGLISH There is a war against the Iraqi people on which little concern has been focused , and I am glad that some people from Parliament have actually visited Iraq to see for themselves . 
ENGLISH It is extremely important . 
ENGLISH The illegal bombing by the US and Britain , which is not covered by any UN Security Council resolution , has no mandate whatsoever and is absolutely outrageous : it should not be allowed to continue . 
ENGLISH How we can allow illegal bombing like this to continue is just beyond credibility . 
ENGLISH The infrastructure in Iraq has been completely decimated . 
ENGLISH Again , the victims here are innocent people who have no power whatsoever . 
ENGLISH I also have to congratulate here some organisations in our communities who are doing something or are trying to raise awareness , and here I would mention those voices in the wilderness who are the sanction breakers -- I think they are playing a major role and I would like to voice my support here for them . 
ENGLISH We also have to look at the fact that in any kind of future measures against Iraq we should focus on the enhancement of human rights and democracy , and we should also look at the protection of the Kurds and in the north and the Shi'ites in the south in terms of guaranteeing them some sort of autonomy . 
ENGLISH We cannot lose sight of them either . 
ENGLISH Mr President , on 15 April this year , following a full debate with the Council and the Commission , we adopted a resolution that was endorsed by an overwhelming majority of this House . 
ENGLISH We called for the embargo on food and medicines to be lifted , because it hits the Iraqi people and not Saddam Hussein . 
ENGLISH We called for an immediate stop to the bombing the USA and the United Kingdom is engaged on without a mandate from the UN Security Council , because again this hits and punishes not the culprits but the victims in Iraq . 
ENGLISH At the beginning of that resolution we of course confirmed and underlined the Iraqi Government' - s obligation to accept and encourage the United Nations' - controls with a view to the destruction of ABC weapons and to trace the disappeared Kuwaiti citizens . 
ENGLISH With today' - s debate and this new resolution we are seeking to achieve three further objectives . 
ENGLISH First , we want to address not just the Council and the Commission but also the United Nations Security Council . 
ENGLISH Secondly , we propose that our Parliament should take the initiative in sending a fact - finding mission on the ground . 
ENGLISH Thirdly , we reiterate the need for the United Nations , the World Health Organisation and the Red Cross to ensure that the most deprived and vulnerable people in Iraq can benefit from the oil for food programme . 
ENGLISH Mr President , like Mr Andrews I speak this afternoon as one who regards himself as a friend of the Arab and Islamic world . 
ENGLISH This resolution can only be supported if recital A and paragraph 1 are regarded as being at its absolute core . 
ENGLISH We are saying that any relaxation of sanctions must depend upon Iraq respecting United Nations resolutions . 
ENGLISH In particular we must ask Iraq to cooperate with the International Committee of the Red Cross on tracing the 604 Kuwaiti citizens who disappeared as a result of the illegal Iraqi occupation of Kuwait . 
ENGLISH Mr President , one minute is a very short time for such a serious topic . 
ENGLISH I say serious , because we are talking about nothing less than the survival of a nation , and what must be called an international attack on immigrants , as it was once termed by Mr Chevènement , a French Defence Minister , against a nation which was trying to escape the new world order . 
ENGLISH This attack does not bode well for the future . 
ENGLISH This new world order , an expression coined by Mr Bush to conceal the interests of the multinationals and in this case the large American oil companies , is becoming increasingly intolerable for us . 
ENGLISH In this respect , the silence of humanitarian organisations in the face of the situation of the Iraqis who are suffering and over a million of whom have already died by our doing is astonishing . 
ENGLISH What a contrast and what hypocrisy between so - called humanitarianism and this holocaust that we are collectively carrying out due to simple cowardice in the face of American power , that great empire that this House in particular and Europe in general are incapable of opposing on any subject , as yesterday' - s vote on Echelon showed once again . 
ENGLISH The most serious thing , and I will end here , as there is undoubtedly far too much to be said here , is that for once , a Southern country was managing to develop , and the Northern countries , lined up behind Washington , have been unremitting in destroying it . 
ENGLISH This is immensely dangerous and worrying for the new century . 
ENGLISH Mr President , who could not feel sorry for the sorely tried population of Iraq ? 
ENGLISH The political ramifications of their intention are , however , a missed opportunity . 
ENGLISH What is more , they are a complete disaster for the liberated Kurdish part of ancient Mesopotamia . 
ENGLISH Allow me to be more specific . 
ENGLISH At present , the Iraqi Government is even allowed to export unlimited quantities of oil in order to procure humanitarian aid . 
ENGLISH In other words , what is stopping Saddam from alleviating the suffering of his people ? 
ENGLISH In fact , what will happen with the reserved 13 % for the Kurds in the unlikely event that the sanctions are lifted ? 
ENGLISH In my view , the use of the strange term - & # x2018 ; intellectual embargo & # x2019 ; - in recital D is bizarre . After all , the Iraqi intelligentsia has for decades strained under the intellectual embargo of Saddam' - s Baath party . 
ENGLISH The tyrant of the Tigris is only interested in one type of scientist : the developer of weapons of mass destruction . 
ENGLISH It is precisely this obsession of Saddam Hussein' - s which reveals the very risky naivety of Paragraph 3 of the joint resolution , because the lifting of the no - fly zone in the North of Iraq -- remember this is the international guarantee for the Kurds against their arch enemy Saddam -- will probably drive millions of Kurds to take flight once again . 
ENGLISH They know all too well what Saddam' - s pledges are really worth . 
ENGLISH Those tabling this resolution cannot possibly have it in mind to raise this awful spectre . 
ENGLISH Hence my explicit vote against . 
ENGLISH Mr President , let me say that I am shocked and horrified at the Commission reply on the issue of Iraq and the dismissive way in which they dealt with it . 
ENGLISH Just let me quote to the Commissioner , and to the Commission , the saying of Oscar Wilde that in our dealings with life , destiny never closes her book . 
ENGLISH Iraq deserves better than the Commission reply . 
ENGLISH I am absolutely horrified . 
ENGLISH I wish to express total dissatisfaction with the reply of the Commission . 
ENGLISH That is all . 
ENGLISH If you are going to be fair Mr President , let me say I express total satisfaction with the reply of the Commission . 
ENGLISH Perfect , that is one in favour and one against . 
ENGLISH Let us be brief and we will all move on . 
ENGLISH The debate is closed . 
ENGLISH The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m . 
ENGLISH Venezuela 
ENGLISH The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions : 
ENGLISH - - - - - B5 - 0615 / 2000 by Mr Di Pietro and Mr Sánchez García , on behalf of the ELDR Group , on Venezuela ; 
ENGLISH - - - - - B5 - 0627 / 2000 by Mr Salafranca Sánchez - Neyra and others , on behalf of the PPE - DE Group , on the reconstruction and rehabilitation of the areas affected by the catastrophic floods of December 1999 in Venezuela ; 
ENGLISH - - - - - B5 - 0634 / 2000 by Mr Wurtz and others , on behalf of the GUE / NGL Group , on Venezuela ; 
ENGLISH - - - - - B5 - 0642 / 2000 by Mrs Frassoni and Mr Knörr - Borràs , on behalf of the Verts / ALE Group , on the reconstruction of the areas affected by the floods in Venezuela in December 1999 ; 
ENGLISH - - - - - B5 - 0652 / 2000 by Mr Linkohr and Mr Menéndez del Valle , on behalf of the PSE Group , on the reconstruction of the areas affected by the floods in Venezuela in December 1999 . 
ENGLISH Mr President , today we have the opportunity to show our solidarity with the Venezuelan people , who last December experienced the consequences of a natural disaster which affected the coasts of the States of Vargas and Miranda and caused the deaths of 50 000 people . 
ENGLISH We therefore insist on the importance of approving this resolution which , in summary , is the logical consequence of the report of the special committee which travelled to Venezuela to get to know the reality on the ground of this natural disaster , and also reflects the coherence of the European Union' - s political commitments . 
ENGLISH I hope it will thereby be possible to finance , in a significant way , the programme for recovery of the areas affected and that it will be drawn up according to the models for this type of action . 
ENGLISH Mr President , as Mr Sánchez García has just reminded us , this resolution comes within the scope of the decision taken by the Conference of Presidents to send an ad hoc mission to Venezuela to assess the tragic consequences of December' - s floods in that country . 
ENGLISH This issue of Venezuela is serious and urgent . 
ENGLISH It is serious because the losses have not yet been sufficiently quantified -- but this tragedy has caused the deaths of more than 30 000 people . 
ENGLISH It is urgent , Mr President , because the European Parliament' - s mission took place last February and so far we have not been able to reach any final conclusions . 
ENGLISH I would like to take advantage of the presence of the Commission to ask the Commissioner how it has fulfilled the mandate which it received from this Parliament in the resolution adopted in January to assess the Community' - s response to the tragedy in Venezuela . 
ENGLISH I hope the Commission is capable of mobilising the necessary human resources to deal with the priorities indicated by this Parliament and I am sure that , if the Commission , as it has proposed in its preliminary draft budget for 2001, is going to be able to spend EUR 815 million in the Balkans , it will also be able to spend EUR 50 million in Venezuela . 
ENGLISH Mr President , this issue raises a problem which goes much further than the resolution on Venezuela . 
ENGLISH The problem involves the preservation of Parliament' - s capacity to respond to this type of situation . 
ENGLISH We have to make it very clear what we want . Do we want a real Parliament or do we want a cardboard cut - out Parliament ? 
ENGLISH Do we want a Parliament which fully assumes its duties or do we want a Parliament which simply endorses the priorities of other institutions ? 
ENGLISH Do we want a Parliament which does its duty or do we want a Parliament which simply signs cheques relating to the commitments of other institutions ? 
ENGLISH This is the debate surrounding the 2001 budget and it was the debate surrounding the 2000 budget . 
ENGLISH Mr President . I am convinced that , on the basis of this will , we will find in this budget , which consists of EUR 100 000 million this year and will involve a similar amount in subsequent years , a way to provide for the needs of the victims of this tragedy . 
ENGLISH Mr President , the three points which the Confederal Group of the European United Left -- Nordic Green Left wishes to make on the aid which the European Union can and must give to Venezuela as a result of the terrible flood disaster are : first , we should throw ourselves economically and technically into resolving the consequences suffered , and not reduce this aid , as the Commission intends , in order to fund another catastrophe , this time artificial , caused by us in the Balkans , in Kosovo and in Yugoslavia . 
ENGLISH Mr President , with regard to this resolution which speaks of solidarity with the Venezuelan people , I wish to express my total agreement with certain ideas . 
ENGLISH Firstly , I would ask that aid should reach the people and groups who are most in need of it . 
ENGLISH As a group we are clearly not opposed to this talk of SMBs and industries in general , but this eagerness to talk of these sectors seems excessive while we do not talk of other more needy groups . 
ENGLISH In particular -- as Mr Salafranca has pointed out -- the effectiveness of the aid measures must not suffer as a result of a lack of human resources . 
ENGLISH Secondly , we denounce the fact that something so essential to our group as incorporating the people affected into the drawing up and application of aid measures has not been accepted . This is necessary so that we do not find that things have been done which are not needed or not wanted . 
ENGLISH Finally , last but not least , we should reflect on our methods of production and our consumption of natural resources , because this lies behind these catastrophes , and we should not be regularly lamenting them . 
ENGLISH Mr President , I do not mean to give the impression that just because there is a particular sensitivity towards Latin America in this House , this should prevent us from also supporting the Commission' - s efforts regarding Central and Eastern Europe and the reconstruction of the Balkans . 
ENGLISH What does concern us at the moment is the abandonment of that area , which we have begun to notice over the last year , with the new Commission . 
ENGLISH It seems as if Latin America has suddenly disappeared from the map of the Commission' - s concerns . 
ENGLISH Of course , we have had good experiences with the European Union' - s contribution to Central America after the Mitch disaster , and we also saw a good initial reaction on the part of the Commission , which quickly allocated EUR 400 000 for emergency humanitarian aid to Venezuela when the disaster mentioned by previous speakers happened . 
ENGLISH At the moment we know that the Commission has the possibility , the means and the resources , to provide more aid . 
ENGLISH This type of disaster is unfortunately happening frequently and I have the impression that Latin America makes good use of Community aid . 
ENGLISH We have the instruments , the means , the good representation and also a European presence in those areas . 
ENGLISH We must remember for example that the European Union is the main foreign investor in Venezuela and that we have many cultural and social ties with those countries . 
ENGLISH Therefore , I hope that the Commission views this Parliament' - s requests with the best possible will so that , with the resources available , and with those which can be mobilised quickly , these requests can be granted and that a plan may be drawn up which is not limited to essential humanitarian aid , but which will help this country , which is making a great effort to rebuild itself for its own benefit , and probably also for our benefit , because the development of Latin America probably benefits the continent of Europe more than any other . 
ENGLISH Mr President , more than six months have now passed since the tragic floods in Venezuela . 
ENGLISH As a member of the European Parliament' - s ad hoc delegation , I was able to witness the terrible effects of what is considered to be the worst natural disaster that has ever occurred in Latin America . 
ENGLISH It was something that you had to see with your own eyes to believe . As striking as the photographs and television pictures in the media were , they merely hinted at the true scale of the disaster . 
ENGLISH We were also able to see the fantastic cooperation work that the NGOs are carrying out with people affected by the floods . 
ENGLISH This emergency humanitarian aid provided by the NGOs could not have occurred without the Commission' - s financial support and I therefore wish to praise all those who made it possible . 
ENGLISH However , the priority now must be to reconstruct the whole area affected and to stimulate economic recovery . 
ENGLISH I am aware that the task of reconstruction is colossal and that is perhaps why it has been so slow . 
ENGLISH Only a few roads have been cleared . 
ENGLISH Water and electricity supplies have been restored to some extent , but little more has been done , and the people who have been affected are despairing of the delay . 
ENGLISH Thousands of them are still dependent on food aid to survive . 
ENGLISH It is vital to replace the thousands of jobs destroyed by the floods . 
ENGLISH The Venezuelan Government will need a great deal of support if it is to succeed in this Herculean task . 
ENGLISH With regard to the task of reconstruction , which cannot be delayed , the Commission must offer the same level of support it provided in terms of emergency humanitarian aid for countries affected by Hurricane Mitch , or something similar . 
ENGLISH We therefore urge the Commission to provide a significant financial contribution over the next five years . 
ENGLISH Apart from a basic obligation to show solidarity , the historical ties that bind us to Venezuela and the stability of democracy in that country demand this . 
ENGLISH First , let me stress that quite contrary to what has been suggested here , the Commission is very much aware of the political importance of Latin America and that in fact it has recently taken a number of initiatives that underline its great political importance for Europe . 
ENGLISH Secondly , let me point out that in the case of the disaster in Venezuela , it is still worth considering cause and effect as well as responsibility . 
ENGLISH This aid is directed at two things . 
ENGLISH First , it is aimed at supporting reconstruction in the federal state of Vargas . 
ENGLISH It is already becoming a little easier to identify the needs here , which was not the case in the beginning . 
ENGLISH I can understand people being impatient because progress is so slow in some areas . 
ENGLISH But the Venezuelan Government has not proposed any projects to us . 
ENGLISH That is not meant as some kind of covert criticism . 
ENGLISH It is probably difficult for the Venezuelan Government to decide very quickly what the priorities should be . 
ENGLISH The results are now before us . 
ENGLISH In a few days' - time we will forward a communication to the Council on the measures to be supported and the funding to be provided . 
ENGLISH The second aspect -- which in my view is even more important than reconstruction aid -- is aid for the prevention of disasters . 
ENGLISH I believe the best way we can help the people in the long term is for us to concentrate on that . 
ENGLISH As for funding these two measures , that is a very difficult question , because it really is a problem for the Commission to be constantly confronted by the Council and Parliament with their wishes as to what it should do and where it should help ; but unfortunately no - one tells the Commission where it is to get the money from . 
ENGLISH We will find a way to finance these measures too and will make realistic proposals , incidentally also proposals that will take account of what the country itself can contribute in view of the sharp rise in its revenue from oil exports . 
ENGLISH Thank you very much , Commissioner . 
ENGLISH The joint debate is closed . 
ENGLISH The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m . 
ENGLISH European Monitoring Centre on Racism and Xenophobia 
ENGLISH The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions : 
ENGLISH - - - - - B5 ­ 0628 / 2000 by Mr Van Velzen , on behalf of the PPE / DE Group , on the controversy involving the European Monitoring Centre on Racism and Xenophobia ; 
ENGLISH - - - - - B5 ­ 0635 / 2000 by Mr Wurtz and others , on behalf of the GUE / NGL Group , on the resignation of Mr Pelinka , the Austrian representative on the Management Board of the European Monitoring Centre on Racism and Xenophobia ; 
ENGLISH - - - - - B5 ­ 0651 / 2000 by Mr Ford and others , on behalf of the PSE Group , on the resignation of Mr Pelinka , the Austrian representative on the Management Board of the European Monitoring Centre on Racism and Xenophobia ; 
ENGLISH Mr President , I agree with Mr Watson , the Chairman of the Committee on Citizens' - Freedoms and Rights , Justice and Home Affairs , who said in an interview that the urgency tabled by Mr Swoboda was the wrong course to choose and that he expected a rather more mature approach . 
ENGLISH I agree with him because in an explanatory statement , which he presented to the House , Mr Swoboda refers to conflicts between the government in Austria and the head of the Monitoring Centre on racism that date back quite some time . 
ENGLISH It was the time when Viktor Klima , an SPÖ member , was head of the Austrian Government and the government was SPÖ - dominated . 
ENGLISH It is a delicate matter when a Socialist from Austria does this , but by no means urgent . 
ENGLISH I endorse what Mr Watson said because here Mr Swoboda is also confirming to the present government that better relations are now being established with this Monitoring Centre . 
ENGLISH He should be pleased about that , as I and many others are . 
ENGLISH She specifically praises Austria' - s new policy towards foreigners and concedes to the government that there has , of course , not been a single xenophobic initiative , whereas there is much progress . 
ENGLISH She says , much progress , which was not possible under the red - green government ; and of course she also says that she is not being hindered in any way in her work . 
ENGLISH So what is the point of all this , Mr Swoboda ? 
ENGLISH As an Austrian Socialist you are obviously just trying to create a platform for polemics against Austrian . 
ENGLISH Mr President , I apologise to the translators if I spoke too quickly earlier on . 
ENGLISH I believe that what happened to Mr Pelinka , a renowned academic respected by the scientific community , is indicative of the true nature of the coalition in power in Austria . 
ENGLISH The far right , particularly when it is in power , is highly skilled in the art of pushing its opponents to the limit . 
ENGLISH What happened in the case of Mr Pelinka did not come about by chance or coincidence . 
ENGLISH It began with slander , he was persecuted by means of an unfair judgement , given by a court answering to the FPÖ , as the current Justice Minister of the FPÖ was Jörg Haider' - s lawyer when he sued Mr Pelinka for libel . 
ENGLISH We are also talking about a challenge issued by Haider to the Community as a whole . 
ENGLISH He reminds us that the Monitoring Centre is a creation of the European Union and that our President attended its inauguration three months ago . 
ENGLISH This is proof , for those who might still have doubts , that we must not negotiate with the far right , as every small victory it achieves strengthens it and makes it more commonplace . 
ENGLISH In response , we must give Mr Pelinka our total support . We must also help the Monitoring Centre on a human , political and financial level and finally , the Member States must continue to isolate the Austrian Government and , while supporting the Austrian people , isolate the coalition , which is unacceptable and unfair . 
ENGLISH Mr President , I had the honour of representing the European Parliament on the management committee of the European Monitoring Centre on Racism and Xenophobia and one of my colleagues there was Professor Doctor Anton Pelinka , representing the Austrian government . 
ENGLISH He played an important role in our deliberations , counselling moderation when others wanted to move too far and too fast , resisting cheap easy stereotyping of those we were investigating and imposing fact in preference to fantasy . 
ENGLISH All in all , he was a frustrating friend for those of us who wanted to move further and faster . 
ENGLISH I was therefore shocked to discover that state victimisation has been taking place against Professor Pelinka , first when Haider 's lawyer , acting as prosecutor and judge in the case of libel against Mr Haider , whom Professor Pelinka described as responsible for having made National Socialist positions and statements politically acceptable . 
ENGLISH Second , when he was constructively dismissed from his position as vice - president of the management committee of the Monitoring Centre through administrative harassment by sections of the current Austrian government . 
ENGLISH This resolution charges our Committee on Civil Liberties , as Mr Watson requested on Monday , to follow these developments closely . 
ENGLISH Perhaps we should not be surprised at what has happened . 
ENGLISH Pelinka has a disturbed relationship with Carinthia and his manner of permanently propagating falsehoods is unacceptable " . 
ENGLISH In March this year the Freedom Party said : " The newspapers were right once again . 
ENGLISH Now he ( Häider ) is threatening us " . 
ENGLISH But he is not threatening anybody . 
ENGLISH It is quite normal . 
ENGLISH When I feed a dog and it bites me then I will not feed it any more because otherwise it may bite me again . 
ENGLISH The wise men have a hard task in front of them over the coming six months . 
ENGLISH Mr President , I am deliberately refraining from entering into these cheap polemics , especially on the part of Mr Pirker , but want to keep the discussion at a certain level and stick to the facts . 
ENGLISH It is a fact that the Monitoring Centre on Racism and Xenophobia did indeed face difficulties in the first weeks , which were politically motivated , and that Mr Pirker in particular grossly insulted the head of the Centre , whom he has cited today as a witness to show how well things are going . 
ENGLISH It is a fact -- and I noted that in my first statement today ; the ladies and gentlemen who talk so big were not even there on Monday -- that things have , thank God , improved because Dr Winkler , the head of the Centre , has endeavoured , as has the new Austrian Government representative , to straighten it all out . 
ENGLISH But it is also a fact that the situation remains precarious ; and here I , like Dr Winkler , must also state that unfortunately not just the Austrian Government but also some other governments do not give the Monitoring Centre sufficient support . 
ENGLISH There certainly is an urgent need to call on all the governments -- as I propose -- to support the Monitoring Centre . 
ENGLISH But it is also a fact that , sad to say , the referendum announced for Austria , which representatives of the European and in particular the Austrian People' - s Party who are sitting here in this Chamber opposed only a few days ago , could dangerously aggravate the situation and mood in Austria again ; for it is reviving anti - European feelings that will certainly not do the work of this Monitoring Centre any good . 
ENGLISH And that is why I want to state my view here and call on the government , on those responsible in that government , not to hold that referendum , so as not to stir up new hatred , not to reawaken an anti - European mood again -- something a party like the Austrian People' - s Party , which was always pro - European , is in fact unlikely to want . 
ENGLISH I am firmly against that kind of anti - European mood and I place my hopes in this House . 
ENGLISH Mr President , I will tell you immediately that the ELDR group refused to sign the joint resolution for a very simple reason : we find it a little over - emotional , while not forceful enough , and does not offer the possibility of a more political and more balanced choice in the name of Parliament . 
ENGLISH We consider that the problem associated with the resignation of Mr Pelinka is important enough not to be tackled by a resolution that is emotional but does not actually say anything and is extremely watered - down . 
ENGLISH I do not understand their agreement on the text in its current form , in relation to the initial text that they themselves introduced . 
ENGLISH Consequently , we within the liberal group would like , and this is the wish of Mr Watson , his committee to be able to effectively take control of the matter and we would like to have very clear information on whether the Austrian Government has infringed Article 10 of the Treaty , that is , whether or not it has fulfilled its obligations with regard to the Monitoring Centre . 
ENGLISH If it has not fulfilled its obligations , it is up to Parliament to take the appropriate action with regard to the Commission and the Council . 
ENGLISH The main thing is to make it clear and today we are not clear . 
ENGLISH Mr President , my group also supports the proposal by the chairman of the Committee on Citizens' - Freedoms and Rights , Justice and Home Affairs to treat this whole affair carefully in that committee . 
ENGLISH Nonetheless , we will vote for this resolution because , unlike the earlier ones , it is an extremely moderate and responsible reaction to the statements by the head of the Monitoring Centre to the Committee on Home Affairs 
ENGLISH The EPP Group also took part in the discussions and decisions on the present resolution . 
ENGLISH Mr Pirker reads out some statements by the head of the Monitoring Centre but keeps silent about the terrible statements she made in committee , where Mr Pirker himself launched violent attacks on her , about the defamation of the Centre in the Austrian Parliament , about the systematic harassment , the lack of security provisions , the lack of support . 
ENGLISH I am sad to see the ÖVP members also giving us a sample here of the way they deal with government critics in their own country ; in fact attempting to present them as traitors to their country . 
ENGLISH If you listened to Mr Pirker' - s allegations that any criticism is criticism directed against Austria , you will see that this really is an appalling attempt to invent a conflict between the defence of human rights and patriotism . 
ENGLISH That is a disgraceful attitude ! 
ENGLISH Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , we are debating a motion for a resolution that is lacking in substance . 
ENGLISH Who has actually seen Mr Pelinka' - s letter of resignation ? 
ENGLISH Who knows the real circumstances of his resignation ? 
ENGLISH What is known in Austria about Mr Pelinka' - s resignation is the fact that various versions are being circulated by various people . 
ENGLISH What I know is the fact that legal proceedings are pending between Mr Pelinka and Mr Haider . Under no circumstances is it the business of politics or of any parliament to go so far as to criticise proceedings before an independent court that have not yet concluded . 
ENGLISH Every state governed by the rule of law provides for constitutional legal measures . 
ENGLISH Racism and xenophobia are a serious problem throughout the Union and one that must be taken seriously . 
ENGLISH It must be combated by every means available wherever it arises . 
ENGLISH What I expect of the Monitoring Centre is to take stock of the situation objectively and to look at it in comparative terms , so as to allow the policy - makers to react to it . 
ENGLISH What I do not expect of the Monitoring Centre is interference in day - to - day political matters and to exercise its mandate with an ideological bias . 
ENGLISH Because underlying the concept of racism and xenophobia there are people and their destinies , and they should not be used to put on some kind of political show . 
ENGLISH What I oppose is that this simplistic motion for a resolution is also tabled by those Austrian Members who pretend to support my home country . 
ENGLISH Mr President , the Commission is grateful for the valuable contribution Professor Pelinka has made as a member of the Management Board towards setting up the European Monitoring Centre on Racism and Xenophobia . 
ENGLISH Yet it is the Commission' - s common practice not to express an opinion on legal proceedings concerning individuals in the Member States . 
ENGLISH Moreover , the Commission cannot express any views on the reasons that led Professor Pelinka to resign from the Monitoring Centre' - s Management Board . 
ENGLISH The Commission services have already requested the Austrian authorities to appoint a new member of the Management Board . 
ENGLISH I do not believe I need give you an assurance here , since everyone knows that so far , the Commission has done all in its power to support the Monitoring Centre in Vienna and will continue to do so in future . 
ENGLISH We are firmly convinced that the Monitoring Centre plays an important role in combating racism , xenophobia and anti - Semitism . 
ENGLISH Let me specifically underline once again that the Commission attaches the greatest importance to ensuring that the Monitoring Centre will under all circumstances remain an independent body , enjoying the utmost autonomy in the performance of its tasks . 
ENGLISH That concludes the debate on topical and urgent subjects of major importance . 
ENGLISH We shall now proceed to the vote . 
ENGLISH Before the vote on child soldiers in Uganda : 
ENGLISH Mr President , we agreed a joint motion for a resolution , on which five groups collaborated . 
ENGLISH Once the document was finished , a sixth group joined in . 
ENGLISH I think it is contrary to our Rules of Procedure for a group to join in signing this motion without asking the others . 
ENGLISH My group regards that as a breach of our Rules of Procedure and I would ask you , Mr President , to examine this matter . 
ENGLISH Given that we collaborated on it , we will in fact vote for this resolution , yet I would ask you to ensure that the sixth group' - s signature is deleted from this motion for a resolution . 
ENGLISH Therefore the signature can stand . 
ENGLISH But I would suggest that this be looked into for the future . 
ENGLISH Before the vote on Venezuela : 
ENGLISH Mr President , the same applies here as to the one I just spoke about . 
ENGLISH I insist that you have this checked because it was just during this part - session that a member of our group wanted to add his signature to a motion for a resolution by other groups but first had to obtain written authorisation from the other groups . 
ENGLISH So I would ask you to investigate this matter and inform us of the results . 
ENGLISH For the rest , we support this resolution because we helped draft it . 
ENGLISH I fully understand what you are saying . 
ENGLISH We will look into the matter , but there does not appear to be a rule at the present time . 
ENGLISH Mr President , as you say , Mr Sakellariou , at the beginning of the part - session , presented us with four requests for amendments to the agenda which were all rejected , and now he wants to end his part - session with another request which , as you have already said , is completely inadmissible . 
ENGLISH We could carry on this way , but we would be wasting time . 
ENGLISH The President has already replied . 
ENGLISH It seems to me that he is absolutely right . 
ENGLISH I do not want any further debate . 
ENGLISH We will look into this matter . 
ENGLISH Vote 
ENGLISH Mr President , I simply wish to express our enormous sadness at the news we have just received concerning a horrendous accident on the Spanish roads , in which a lorry has collided with a school bus transporting Catalan school children , with an initial toll of 20 dead and 30 injured , some of whom are very seriously injured . 
ENGLISH Following the debates with the Council last night I was wondering whether this report is actually close enough to the original proposal for first reading procedure to be possible . 
ENGLISH There are certainly a number of amendments where we need further clarification . 
ENGLISH If we vote for them would this actually take the report further away from what this House is allowed to vote on ? 
ENGLISH This concerns Amendments Nos 4, 5, 6, 18, 21, 33, 36, 40, 42 and 46, some of which directly imply policy down to individual schools in Member States . 
ENGLISH I would like to hear whether this is actually a legal procedure for us to be voting on now . 
ENGLISH ll the amendments have been checked and approved by the services so we will vote on them now . 
ENGLISH ( Parliament adopted the legislative resolution ) 
ENGLISH eport ( A5 - 0180 / 2000 ) by Mr Mombaur on behalf of the Committee on Industry , External Trade , Research and Energy , on the Commission 's second report to the Council and the European Parliament on the state of liberalisation of the energy markets ( COM ( 1999 ) 198 -- COM ( 1999 ) 164 -- COM ( 1999 ) 612 -- COM ( 2000 ) 297 -- C5 - 0163 / 2000 -- 2000 / 2097 ( COS ) ) 
ENGLISH ( Parliament adopted the resolution ) 
ENGLISH < / P > eport ( A5 - 0170 / 2000 ) by Mr Karas , on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs , on the Commission communication on communications strategy in the last phases of the completion of EMU ( COM ( 2000 ) 57 -- C5 - 0104 / 2000 -- 2000 / 2019 ( COS ) ) 
ENGLISH ( Parliament adopted the resolution ) 
ENGLISH < / P > eport ( A5 - 0162 / 2000 ) by Mr Lambert , on behalf of the Committee on Petitions , on the deliberations of the Committee on Petitions during the parliamentary year 1999 - 2000 
ENGLISH ( Parliament adopted the resolution ) 
ENGLISH < / P > eport ( A5 - 0181 / 2000 ) by Mrs Thors , on behalf of the Committee on Petitions , on the activities of the European Ombudsman for 1999 ( C5 - 0303 / 2000 ) 
ENGLISH < / P > eport ( A5 - 0141 / 2000 ) by Mr Atkins , on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy , Transport and Tourism , on the Commission communication to the Council and the European Parliament -- The creation of the single European sky ( COM ( 1999 ) 614 -- C5 - 0085 / 2000 -- 2000 / 2053 ( COS ) ) 
ENGLISH ( Parliament adopted the resolution ) 
ENGLISH eport ( A5 - 0155 / 2000 ) by Mrs Damião , on behalf of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs , on the Commission report on the implementation of Council Directive 92 / 85 / EEC of 19 October 1992 on the introduction of measures to encourage improvements in the health and safety at work of pregnant workers and workers who have recently given birth or are breastfeeding ( COM ( 1999 ) 100 -- C5 - 0158 / 1999 -- 1999 / 2151 ( COS ) ) raftsman " Hughes procedure " : Emilia Franziska Müller , Committee on Women 's Rights and Equal Opportunities . 
ENGLISH ( Parliament adopted the resolution ) 
ENGLISH -- hat concludes the vote . 
ENGLISH Mr President , I simply wish to update the information I communicated to the House a few moments ago . 
ENGLISH The accident which has taken place in Spain is really very serious . 
ENGLISH The number of children who have died has risen to 27, and their families , to whom we wish to send our condolences , are from Cerdanyola del Vallés and from Viladecans , in Barcelona . 
ENGLISH I will make sure that the President is fully apprised of that and that is so done . 
ENGLISH Mr President , I do not know the extent of this tragedy , but if children are dead , I would perhaps suggest to the House that we observe a minute' - s silence . 
ENGLISH We need to have more information about the full extent of the tragedy . 
ENGLISH Mr President , I voted for the Redondo report which regulates European Union interventions in the event of fires and atmospheric pollution . 
ENGLISH This is certainly a positive measure . 
ENGLISH I voted for the motion but I would prefer it if , in future , in implementing the proposal , we took into consideration the fact that many pensioners and elderly people live near forests and they are often the only people left in remote and countryside areas . 
ENGLISH Fires are frequent in these areas and it would therefore be a good idea , or rather appropriate to use these people to help prevent fires . 
ENGLISH The amendments to the regulation on protecting forests against fires are particularly important for Portugal . 
ENGLISH In fact , we must pay considerably greater attention to the Mediterranean woodlands that have been affected by forest fires , and this requires considerable financial resources for reforestation and for the necessary fire prevention measures . 
ENGLISH For Portugal , where fires have destroyed large areas of forest , it is vital to increase appropriations in order to supplement national investment in building infrastructure , for example , and to help local authorities , private landowners' - associations or wasteland management bodies to buy fire prevention equipment . 
ENGLISH This is why the increase to EUR 77 - million in Community appropriations proposed by the rapporteur as opposed to the EUR 50 - million proposed by the Commission is so important . 
ENGLISH It is also important to create a Community information system on forest fires so that the situation at any given time is more widely known . This will enable us to fight more effectively against forest fires and their causes . 
ENGLISH I shall give my own personal view of the report on forests . 
ENGLISH I know the Committee on Agriculture tells us that we are having the wrong debate in defending an increase in the budget in the context of these reports . 
ENGLISH Personally , I consider that we have a political responsibility to send strong political signals to the Commission , the Council and the citizens . 
ENGLISH In December 1999, part of the European Union was hit by terrible storms which devastated a large proportion of the forests in southern and eastern France and created despair among the victims , in particular small - holders . 
ENGLISH I also know that we cannot rob Peter to pay Paul . 
ENGLISH By voting for the rapporteur' - s proposals , I wanted to contribute to the implementation of a true forestry policy in the European Union , as despite the vast CAP budget , forests , which are an integral part of agriculture , remain the poor relation . 
ENGLISH Unfortunately , the protection and attention which they are afforded is not commensurate with their importance . 
ENGLISH The major catastrophes which forests have suffered over recent years and the failure to react adequately in dealing with them are seriously jeopardising the ecological balance , as well as health , safety and numerous cultural and social values inextricably bound up with our forest heritage . 
ENGLISH Mountain and forest areas , especially in the Mediterranean , have been seriously damaged by deforestation , fire , erosion desertification , abandonment , abuse and inadequate reforestation , with the result that tens of thousands of acres of forest land have been lost . 
ENGLISH Allow me to bring to your attention the dramatic problem in Greece , which is at the top of the European league in terms of the numbers of acres burnt for every fire . 
ENGLISH Only 10 % of the surface area destroyed in Greece is reforested . 
ENGLISH The remaining 90 % is either abandoned or , more usually , is swallowed up and developed by economic interests ( such as the tourist businesses generally encouraged by the government of the day ) , which take advantage of the fires -- and / or are perhaps guilty of arson in starting them -- the unresolved problem of land ownership and the fact that there are no forest land register or records of government - owned forests in order to improve their profits . 
ENGLISH We have a wide variety of forests within the Community ( northern , temperate , Mediterranean and tropical ) and an equally wide variety of general and specific problems . 
ENGLISH Not only has the EU 's forest policy to date failed as a result of fragmented , one - off , inconsistent and incoherent action and the wholly inadequate funds provided ; the Commission has now proposed further cuts in the already minimal funds available to protect forests from fire and atmospheric pollution . 
ENGLISH The reason given for the proposed cuts is the reduced take - up of funds during the last period ! 
ENGLISH But the problems have not been solved . 
ENGLISH On the contrary , they have multiplied . 
ENGLISH Such a policy is not merely hypocritical . 
ENGLISH It is aiding and abetting fire . 
ENGLISH We shall not give up . 
ENGLISH We call on the European Parliament to stand by its repeated votes and positions on the need to strengthen measures to prevent and fight fires and protect and enhance the value of our forest heritage in all areas of the Union . 
ENGLISH We believe that the Community funds allocated to forests were and still are totally inadequate and we call for them to be increased in line with real needs and the importance of forests . 
ENGLISH In doing so we shall be helping to ensure that the forests in these countries are protected , developed , restored ecologically and used productively . 
ENGLISH I abstained to toe the line of the Group of the European People 's Party and European Democrats , but also because I was uncertain for another reason : just before I came into the Chamber to vote I started to wonder what would happen to the firms which produce phthalates if we ban the use of phthalates , not everywhere on Community territory and in all cases , but only when they are used in toys . 
ENGLISH Surely they will not use these phthalates for other purposes ? 
ENGLISH For objects that might be used by pensioners or the elderly ? 
ENGLISH Or for some other purpose ? 
ENGLISH I would be extremely concerned if this were the case . 
ENGLISH I will not continue Mr President , because this is a public debate and I prefer to stop here . 
ENGLISH g. -- ( SV ) If Amendment 6 to Article 2 of the directive is adopted , the following explanation of vote from Parliament 's Group of the Europe People 's Party and European Democrats will apply . 
ENGLISH Reason : Marking toys designed for children between 3 and 6 years of age and childcare articles manufactured completely or partially from soft PVC plastic containing phthalates , and their packaging , with a warning label is very difficult and in reality is likely to be tantamount to an indirect , extended ban . 
ENGLISH The content of the decision on labelling , therefore , goes beyond the scientific grounds for the directive . 
ENGLISH . -- ( FR ) I have a special interest in the matter of toy safety . 
ENGLISH I was a rapporteur on this subject in 1992 and I am particularly interested in following legislative developments on the subject . 
ENGLISH As for phthalates , the chemical substances used to plasticise PVC , I have always campaigned for proactive measures with a view to protecting , as indeed we ought , this particularly vulnerable group of consumers , i.e. children . 
ENGLISH This identification of the risks gave parents legitimate cause for concern , and should have led to firm measures being adopted , meeting the requirements of the precautionary principle . 
ENGLISH What has the European Commission proposed ? 
ENGLISH This is , of course , completely inadequate . 
ENGLISH It is ridiculous to provide for a ban only on toys and childcare articles intended to be placed in the mouth . 
ENGLISH As every parent knows , young children put absolutely everything in their mouths . 
ENGLISH We must therefore ban toys and objects containing phthalates which are likely to be put either totally or partially into children' - s mouths . 
ENGLISH The lack of reliable scientific information on the movement of these chemical substances within the body should lead us to implement the precautionary principle . 
ENGLISH I should also like to point out that we should be particularly vigilant with regard to the substances used as substitutes for phthalates . 
ENGLISH It is essential , furthermore , to bring the labelling of toys and childcare articles containing phthalates which are likely to be put in children' - s mouths into general use . 
ENGLISH To avoid encouraging children to suck or chew on their toys , we should add a clause to prevent flavouring substances being added . 
ENGLISH We should envisage revising the directive in order to bring it up to date in the light of developments in scientific knowledge . 
ENGLISH I am convinced that , given the information currently available , we should adopt an approach of the utmost caution . 
ENGLISH I supported the amendments tabled by the Socialist members of the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Policy . 
ENGLISH I shall conclude by pointing out that , as far as the case of toy safety is concerned , the regulations regarding EC markings are too ambiguous and should be clarified as soon as possible . 
ENGLISH The threat that phthalates may pose to human health has not been proven scientifically . 
ENGLISH For example , according to research undertaken in the United States by the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission , only rarely , if at all , among children is there a risk of exposure to harmful chemicals , as the quantities of phthalates in toys do not exceed that level which could be considered harmful . 
ENGLISH I myself do not support the principle of - 'excessive force' - and an extensive ban that is not justifiable in the light of scientific facts . 
ENGLISH Although it was found in the 1980s that very large quantities of phthalates caused liver tumours in rats and mice , official agencies in Europe and the United States have not confirmed that phthalates present a risk of cancer in humans . 
ENGLISH In addition , I am sceptical about substituting phthalates with substances whose effects there is no research data on . 
ENGLISH However , I support the idea of further research into those phthalates whose effects we cannot be absolutely sure about . 
ENGLISH In practice the problem is a minor one , however , as the European toy industry has , in the main , stopped using phthalates . 
ENGLISH Hieronymi Report ( A5 - 0186 / 2000 ) 
ENGLISH Mr President , I voted for the MEDIA report but I feel that , since pensioners and the elderly watch television more than anyone else and are therefore extremely interested in this European Union aid , it would be beneficial if they were able to watch a European television channel broadcasting European programmes . 
ENGLISH This would make us more successful in preserving the culture of our nations , which is well - known in Europe , rather than only ever importing films from other States , especially the United States of America . 
ENGLISH Mr President , I should like to ask if the members could explain their vote in writing if reports are being discussed or , at least , to wait until the end if they are explaining them orally , as they are entitled to do . 
ENGLISH Written explanations of votes at this time are not an expression of respect for the House for any of us . 
ENGLISH We take note of your observation , Mr Mastorakis . 
ENGLISH Sanders - ten Holte Report ( A5 - 0185 / 2000 ) 
ENGLISH . -- ( FR ) We abstained from the vote on this proposal even though we are firmly convinced that a policy of exchange and cooperation between different countries in the field of education would contribute to improving the quality of education by promoting the intermixing of cultures and exchanges between the peoples living in Europe . 
ENGLISH Such a policy would only be a factor in progress , however , if it were based on an education policy within the various states which aims to earmark greater resources for public education accessible to all . 
ENGLISH We are concerned that a number of phrases are indicative of a restrictive and utilitarian concept of a form of cooperation whose objectives would be dictated by the constraints of the market and initiatives by firms or private bodies looking for a workforce they could train and qualify according to their requirements . 
ENGLISH Introducing the laws of the market into education , however , means keeping the best quality for a minority and allowing the quality for the majority to deteriorate . 
ENGLISH We therefore voted in favour of the amendments warning against allowing the market to play too great a part in education . 
ENGLISH . -- ( PT ) It is a well - known fact that defining the quality of education is a very complex political issue that depends specifically on the objectives set , the means to achieve them and the conditions that determine whether they can be achieved . 
ENGLISH Cooperation at European level on quality assessment and on quality indicators should not therefore generate assessment models , since it is essential for us to maintain a variety of methods and approaches , bearing in mind the different national contexts and varying historical , social , cultural and political situations in each country . 
ENGLISH Potential cooperation based on exchanges of experience in assessing the quality of primary and secondary education must therefore take account of the fact that this is a particularly sensitive area . It must fully respect the responsibility of Member States for the content of their education and for organising their education and training systems , as well as their cultural and linguistic diversity . 
ENGLISH Mombaur Report ( A5 - 0180 / 2000 ) 
ENGLISH Mr President , I voted for the motion partly because one of the recitals states that competition does not prevent the States from imposing public service obligations in the general interest on the parties involved . 
ENGLISH I would like to hope that , when this recital is implemented with regard to the provision of gas for domestic use , there will be a requirement to take into account the many people who have a very low income -- including pensioners who do not have enough to live on -- and that provision will be made for the free supply of a certain quantity of gas or another type of energy . 
ENGLISH . -- ( FR ) Overall , and in each of its comments , this report does nothing but extol the virtues of competition and the market economy . 
ENGLISH Its author' - s sole concern , under the guise of unifying energy markets in Europe , is to deliver this entire sector into the hands of private profit . 
ENGLISH Unification of energy production and distribution throughout the European Union , and the planning and rationalisation of these activities , may represent progress , but only on condition that the whole sector continues to be a public service exclusively concerned with satisfying needs rather than maximising private profit . 
ENGLISH The rapporteur' - s attitude is the exact opposite of this . 
ENGLISH Were the - 'liberalisation process' - he advocates to come into force , this would be tantamount to a step backwards . 
ENGLISH . -- ( FR ) As a new Member of the European Parliament , let me say how shocked I am . 
ENGLISH I did not take part in the previous legislature , which experienced the sell - off with regard to the notion of - 'French style' - public service , and I really do mean a wholesale sell - off similar to what happened to the transport , postal or even the telecommunications sectors . 
ENGLISH In proposing to outline the situation as regards the transposition of the Directive of December 1996, on electricity , and of June 1998, on gas , the Mombaur report is patently expressing the ultraliberal philosophy of the Commission which , under cover of bringing about an internal energy market that is of the greatest advantage to the consumer , is demanding that these markets be opened one hundred percent to competition . 
ENGLISH The process is always the same . 
ENGLISH The Commission puts forward a minimalist directive on the basis of the argument that liberalisation can only be profitable in a context of deregulation . Next the supporters of - 'ever more Europe' - transpose the directive and go even further ( at the start of the year , 65 % of the European market had been liberalised although the directive required only 30 % ) ! 
ENGLISH and , finally , the Commission comes back a second time to - 'regularise' - the de facto situation in a much more restrictive fashion ! 
ENGLISH What is the point of bringing about a single energy market when electricity and gas are not compatible ( in terms of production and distribution , development of the market , or notions of public service ) ? 
ENGLISH How can one reasonably ask a service provider to ensure continuity of a public service , which is available on a fair basis , if this is not economically profitable ? 
ENGLISH By the same token , how can we ask the former monopolies to now become totally competitive , when they still have major investments to pay off , the product of yesterday' - s political choices ? 
ENGLISH How can one reasonably demand ever lower prices in the sacred name of competition without challenging current requirements regarding nuclear safety ? 
ENGLISH I could carry on like this at great length . 
ENGLISH Let me point out that it took decades of republican tradition to enable the gradual build - up of our public services . Is it only going to take a transition period of four years to demolish them ? 
ENGLISH We were consequently unable to vote in favour of this report which expresses the will of the all - powerful Commission to go ever further and ever faster along the road of liberalisation . 
ENGLISH Liberalism may well be worthwhile , but only gradually , in small doses , without definitively ruling out state interventionism , lest we tomorrow suffer the financial consequences of giving it up ! 
ENGLISH . -- ( PT ) In the follow - up to the Lisbon European Summit of 23 and 24 March , which decided to speed up liberalisation in areas such as gas , electricity , postal services and transport , the European Commissioner responsible for Energy presented a set of measures seeking to speed up liberalisation in the electricity sector . These included the implementation of mechanisms for cooperation in overcoming problems that might potentially stall liberalisation , and negotiating access to the Community market with third countries . 
ENGLISH As you will be aware , at the Santa Maria da Feira European Council , the Commission was asked to present a report by March 2001 on developments in the energy markets under the Lisbon strategy , so that we could assess progress in the liberalisation of the electricity market at the Stockholm Summit in March 2001 . With the support of various governments , mechanisms were strengthened during the Portuguese Presidency with the aim of speeding up the process that was already underway with the December 1996 electricity directive . 
ENGLISH This directive stipulated the gradual opening up of this market by 2003, whereas the 1998 natural gas directive stipulates that the final phase of the opening up of this sector should be completed in 2008 . This has serious consequences for Portugal , and specifically for the State Electricity Corporation , its employees and for Portuguese consumers . 
ENGLISH This action sidelines both the issue of employees' - jobs in this sector and the interests of individual Member States , including the protection of a high - quality public service that serves the interests of consumers . We should therefore totally oppose this report . 
ENGLISH . -- ( EL ) The purpose of this report is to justify liberalising the energy markets -- mainly the electricity but also the natural gas market . 
ENGLISH Basically , this means taking this strategically important industry away from the public sector and giving it to private - sector companies to run so that they can increase their profits . 
ENGLISH The state then merely regulates the private monopolies and ensures that guidelines issued by the European Union are complied with and it is the country 's economy and its people that pay the price . 
ENGLISH The whole thrust of the report is geared away from serving the interests of the people -- the interests of the man in the street -- and growth in the national economy and towards serving the interests of large monopolies . 
ENGLISH The report contains quite a few inaccuracies in its bid to present the liberalisation of the energy market in an attractive light . 
ENGLISH For example , it is not true that competition has reduced prices and created jobs in Great Britain . 
ENGLISH In the 4 - 5 years since electricity was privatised , prices have increased substantially , jobs have been lost and there is no longer a national , long - term electricity development programme . 
ENGLISH Elsewhere , the same report admits that jobs have been lost as a result of liberalisation , but considers that new jobs will be created in non - productive sectors , on the stock exchange , in advertising , in financial services and so forth 
ENGLISH According to a study by the Public Power Corporation in Greece , the present staff of 32,000 will be cut to 20,000 and numerous services which are crucial to both the PPC and the economy of Greece , such as the production of new technologies , power station studies etc. will be abolished as a result of the liberalisation of the electricity market . 
ENGLISH Privatisation and liberalisation will push up prices , especially to consumers on the small Aegean islands , who pay a price per kilowatt / hour several times below cost . 
ENGLISH It is also unacceptable that a public - sector corporation should be forced to allow private - sector companies to use its highly valuable transmission and distribution grid in the name of so - called competition . 
ENGLISH If the EU really wanted healthy competition , as it itself understands the term , it would force the private sector to create its own grid and generating stations and compete with public corporations , rather than force the public corporations to " offer " their grid to their competitors . 
ENGLISH It is for precisely this reason that an attempt is being made to separate sectors , thereby preventing public - sector corporations from operating with a view to optimising vertically integrated activities and become competitive . 
ENGLISH Generating electricity is not the same as producing a simple commodity . 
ENGLISH The energy sector is crucial to the economic development of a country and vital to its defence . 
ENGLISH Consequently , liberalising the energy markets jeopardises both the security of a country and its economic growth . 
ENGLISH This risk can clearly be discerned ; as the report stresses , " In a frontier - free Europe , public utilities must operate in the single market . 
ENGLISH These firms are no longer strictly national ; nor are their shareholders " . 
ENGLISH The GUE / NGL MEPs have therefore voted against Mr Mombaur 's report . 
ENGLISH It is gratifying that the efforts to create a liberalised energy sector now look seriously as if they are to bear fruit . 
ENGLISH Most countries are by now well under way with implementing extensive changes to the structures of their markets . 
ENGLISH Some countries have already implemented full liberalisation , and I am especially pleased that Denmark is in the vanguard . 
ENGLISH Denmark ought to make use of this favourable position and complete the liberalisation , as has already happened in Sweden , for example . 
ENGLISH It is therefore unfortunate that the Danish Government does not apparently have any plans for the time being to take the final step towards full liberalisation . 
ENGLISH Mr Mombauer' - s excellent report hits home regarding several points . 
ENGLISH In particular , it should be emphasised how important it is to take account right now of the candidate States' - situation . 
ENGLISH Liberalisation of the energy markets in the countries of Eastern Europe will require special arrangements , and particular account must be taken of the environment . 
ENGLISH It is also important to draw attention to the fact that all electricity production should be transparent , and that special support for this must in no circumstances constitute a distortion of competition . 
ENGLISH Radwan Report ( A5 - 0169 / 2000 ) 
ENGLISH Mr President , the 1999 annual report of the European Central Bank is not terribly forthcoming on the subject of the main question that all observers are asking : why has the euro , which was presented as a strong currency , turned out in the end to be a weak currency ? 
ENGLISH The only explanation given is the difference in economic health and structures between Europe and the United States . 
ENGLISH Although that is true , it is not a sufficient reason . 
ENGLISH It should be mentioned , first of all , that Europe is not a single country , with one people , one state , and one economic government and that , consequently , the euro is generally considered to be more vulnerable than a national currency . 
ENGLISH Furthermore , it was launched at too high a level at the outset , precisely because it was evaluated in relation to the existing rates for genuine national currencies , even though it has none of their intrinsic qualities . 
ENGLISH How do European leaders intend to combat this depreciation ? 
ENGLISH Firstly , indirectly , by means of policies to promote growth , an approach we can only endorse . 
ENGLISH At the same time , however , we see the European Central Bank raising interest rates , officially in order to combat a non - existent risk of inflation , but in reality in order to support the parity of the euro . 
ENGLISH It is a double - edged sword , because , if it is used at the wrong moment in the cycle , it may cancel out the growth that they are trying to stimulate by other means . 
ENGLISH The other dubious solution is the headlong rush to strengthen the eleven members of the euro zone , which is supposed to lead gradually to a single European economic government . 
ENGLISH This will not change a great deal in the short term . 
ENGLISH In order to deal with the root of the matter , we should have to deny the nations of Europe any autonomy whatsoever , but this is patently impossible . 
ENGLISH In any event , a deadlock is being imposed on the system at the same time . 
ENGLISH As I explained at a recent symposium of the French National Assembly , the Charter of Fundamental Rights is intended to serve , among other things , to put an even greater stranglehold on the peoples of Europe in relation to Community law and hence also in relation to the single currency . 
ENGLISH This venture is helping to take us to a point where we lose our freedoms . 
ENGLISH Mr President , surely you agree that these are not explanations of vote , but simply a continuation of the debate . 
ENGLISH I still do not know how Mr Berthu voted , not that I am interested , but this is not an explanation of vote , this is just a continuation of the debate . 
ENGLISH I voted for the Radwan report despite the fact that point 9 on page 8 calls upon Member States to speed up the structural reforms of the social insurance systems in wording which does not convince me . 
ENGLISH Is it the usual request which , with these words , so often disguises the request to cut down on citizens' pensions in order to reduce the budgetary expenditure of national governments ? 
ENGLISH The report we are now considering attempts to defend the monetarist policies of the European Central Bank , particularly on price stability , whilst forgetting that we do not currently have a continually falling interest rate . On the contrary , we are in a phase of constant increases , which have very serious repercussions on the incomes of less well - off families who use bank loans to buy their own homes , which is what happens in Portugal . 
ENGLISH The rapporteur , who is delighted with the conduct of the ECB , considers that what is crucial is strict observation of the nominal convergence criteria in the Stability Pact , for applicant countries too , together with the policies linked with these criteria . These policies include wage moderation , the flexibility of the labour market and of social security systems and speeding up the liberalisation of the services and capital sectors . 
ENGLISH The rapporteur even goes so far as to criticise euro area countries that have reduced working hours since , as he sees it , this attitude contributes to - & # x2018 ; rendering labour markets more rigid instead of more flexible & # x2019 ; - . 
ENGLISH The rapporteur therefore puts himself in the position of defending the most refined form of capitalist neo - liberalism , at which we must protest most vehemently by voting against the report . 
ENGLISH Karas Report ( A5 - 0170 / 2000 ) 
ENGLISH Mr President , we are discussing the European Parliament report on the information strategy to be adopted in the final phase of application of monetary union . I would like to make it clear to Mrs Peijs that I voted against this report . 
ENGLISH This report reflects the concern felt by many leaders in the face of the public' - s virtually total lack of interest in the implementation of the euro . 
ENGLISH We are , however , eighteen months away from a crucial deadline : the withdrawal of national currencies and the start of the physical circulation of euro notes and coins . 
ENGLISH So far , admittedly , progress has been relatively smooth for the euro , as the initial phase has principally involved technical experts , bankers , investment experts and stock market traders , who have all had adequate warning and who , moreover , are favourable to the idea on the whole . 
ENGLISH In such circumstances , it is not surprising that the euro has been easy to establish in this phase . 
ENGLISH From now on , however , progress promises to be a lot less smooth , since the euro is about to come up against the citizens who , more often than not , have not yet fully understood what is going to be expected of them and who are going to find themselves cornered by decisions which have already been taken . 
ENGLISH In order to make up for this omission , the European Parliament is demanding that the information policy be stepped up , increasing appropriations by approximately 30 % , to EUR 38 million per annum . 
ENGLISH In order to deal with the complexes of decision - makers who might be experiencing doubts , it adds , somewhat ingenuously , that , to quote the resolution voted on , - & # x2018 ; according to Article 37 ( b ) of the Interinstitutional Agreement of 6 May 1999, information policy is an autonomous action which needs no legal basis & # x2019 ; - . 
ENGLISH In such circumstances , indeed , why should we hold back ? 
ENGLISH Mr President , I will endeavour to comply with Mrs Peijs' wishes and keep my speech short . I will simply say that I voted for this report in the hope that , on 31 December 2001, all the pensioners will be presented with a calculator which will convert their own currency into euro . 
ENGLISH Mr President , I am one of those MEPs who has tabled Amendment 7 with the request that the Commission 's euro information campaign be restricted to those countries that are part of the area in which the currency is at present being used . 
ENGLISH This means that Sweden , Denmark and the United Kingdom should remain outside the campaign while the krona and the pound are still the currencies of those countries . 
ENGLISH It is a reasonable request that the EU not carry out tax - funded campaigns in Member States on sensitive internal political issues . 
ENGLISH In the end , it is a question of tolerance for one another and of respect for each nation 's democratic process . 
ENGLISH -- ( DA ) The Danish Social Democrats have today voted in favour of Mr Karas' - s communication strategy for implementing EMU . 
ENGLISH Introduction of the new common notes and coins will have considerable practical significance for individuals and companies , not only because the coins and notes are new but also because the - 'new prices' - have to be got used to once the present ones have been converted into the common currency . 
ENGLISH Money is something in which it is necessary to have confidence . 
ENGLISH It is therefore important that the necessary information should be made available , and more information should of course be made available than we receive whenever countries at present introduce new designs on notes and coins . 
ENGLISH We agree that it is right for the Danish Government not to have entered into such an agreement . We look forward to a situation in which Denmark too can enter into such an agreement once the Danish people have hopefully said yes to the common currency in the referendum on 28 September 2000 . 
ENGLISH -- ( NL ) My party , the Socialist Party in the Netherlands , has never been in favour of rushing through a common currency within the EU . 
ENGLISH The euro is preventing us from regulating the economy by adjusting interest rates and exchange rates . 
ENGLISH I am therefore of the opinion that the euro is only convenient for businesspeople , lavish holidaymakers and MEPs , but not for the majority of people . 
ENGLISH Insofar as there was ever faith in the euro , this faith has been eroded extensively since the euro has dropped in value compared to the Danish Kroner , the Swedish Kronor , the British Pound and the currency of many countries outside the European Union . 
ENGLISH I can therefore imagine that those pro - euro now feel the need for a propaganda campaign . 
ENGLISH The Karas report mainly intends to instil more confidence in the euro among the public at large by , inter alia , involving sports associations and education . 
ENGLISH In addition , it intends to denounce the practices of swindlers and those increasing prices who are cashing in on the introduction of the euro . 
ENGLISH I wholeheartedly endorse this part of the report , but I was unable to assent to the proposal as a whole . 
ENGLISH I reject the Karas report in its entirety . 
ENGLISH While the aim of familiarising Europeans with their future currency is a perfectly legitimate one , given that the decision to give up national currencies has already been taken ( in conditions which I deplore ) , I am adamant in rejecting the propaganda this text puts forward in support of what Mr Karas terms - & # x2018 ; an essential , identity - building factor in the process of European integration & # x2019 ; - . 
ENGLISH This text at least has the merit of exposing the outrageous untruth to which the supporters of a federal Europe resorted when they asked the French to ratify the Maastricht Treaty in 1992 . At that time , the single currency was presented as a purely technical instrument to improve the operation of the economy in relation to the dollar and the yen , and as an operation that was perfectly neutral in terms of national sovereignty . 
ENGLISH This text will be an essential weapon , let us have no doubt , for all the people in Great Britain , Sweden and Denmark fighting to safeguard their national democracies . The euro , even though its supporters in these countries deny it today , is in fact the instrument of warfare of a federal Europe rejected by the overwhelming majority of its peoples . 
ENGLISH So when the honourable Members reject the amendment tabled by William Abitbol , simply asking that this integrationist objective be clearly stated in the Commission' - s communication programmes , they are contributing to a propaganda operation which their voters will most certainly punish them for . 
ENGLISH The resolution of the Karas report claims that women for some reason do not share the general enthusiasm which should have greeted the implementation of the euro . 
ENGLISH This smacks of the unpleasant tones of revolutionary propagandists of every age , seeing reactionary plots between the cloth and the women in every household rejecting the bright revolutionary future . 
ENGLISH It seems not to have occurred to anyone that it is perhaps because of their day - to - day experience of economics that women are more than reluctant about the transition to the euro . 
ENGLISH This is a despicable attitude , which reveals the dictatorship of the orthodox thinking which involves branding the men or women that oppose the euro , or who merely show some reluctance , as ignorant , illiterate or uneducated . 
ENGLISH This is where blind federalism takes us ! 
ENGLISH . -- ( FR ) The annual reports from the Ombudsman and the Committee on Petitions belong to the traditions of this House . 
ENGLISH Parliament in turn responds to the reports from both these bodies with two reports of its own that do not vary greatly from year to year . 
ENGLISH There is a new feature , however , this year . The Thors report , supported in particular by the work of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Mr Söderman' - s request , is attempting to give the Ombudsman a general right of access to all the documents that need to be consulted when investigating the case for a complaint . 
ENGLISH We are opposed to this proposal , not because we reject supervision of the administration , but because such powers exceed the jurisdiction of an Ombudsman and approximate to those of a judge . 
ENGLISH The proliferation of competencies , the diversification of spheres of intervention and the legislative bulimia of the Commission and the European Parliament will no doubt do nothing to make this phenomenon any better . 
ENGLISH The Ombudsman and his colleagues are not , however , the right people to meet these challenges . 
ENGLISH It is our political responsibility to cut such disputes off at source by giving our work precedence over issuing activist texts to justify our existence , with proper respect for the principle of subsidiarity which will prevent the European Union ruling on subjects that are none of its concern , and by ourselves , if necessary , making use of the authority we have in terms of supervising Community bodies . 
ENGLISH If we have to allow the Ombudsman to monitor administrative problems , we must , for our part , learn how , before and after the fact , to control the insane Community machinery which is running amok . 
ENGLISH The excesses we must fight are often the product of the very nature of the current construction of Europe , something we must tackle at the very root . 
ENGLISH Atkins Report ( A5 - 0162 / 2000 ) 
ENGLISH Mr President , do not tell Mrs Peijs that I am not doing my best to comply with her wishes . 
ENGLISH I voted for the Atkins report because it is extremely important for pensioners , who do not have much time left , to arrive at their destination on time when they travel by air as they are always short of time . 
ENGLISH This part - session has produced a rich crop of reports on transport . 
ENGLISH I must , unfortunately , observe , however , that this sector is examined only from the Liberal point of view . 
ENGLISH Mr Atkins' - s report on the European Commission proposal on the single European sky goes along with this rationale of liberalisation at any price . 
ENGLISH This was the cause of the French air traffic controllers' - strike last week . 
ENGLISH This was how they expressed their concerns about a purely commercial view of their profession . 
ENGLISH I understand their action , and I can certainly not say as much for Mr Atkins , whose report urges the Commission to encourage Member State governments that currently tolerate a situation where national labour disputes disrupt air traffic to tackle the problem as a matter of urgency & # x2019 ; - . 
ENGLISH It is pathetic ! 
ENGLISH No one can deny that the air traffic situation has deteriorated . 
ENGLISH Air traffic corridors and airports are at saturation point , delays are common , with one in three aircraft behind schedule , and the whole business is accompanied by a trail of environmental and noise pollution . 
ENGLISH I disagree entirely , however , with the means she puts forward and with the report' - s proposals . 
ENGLISH The report proposes to introduce competition among air traffic control centres , taking away the link between regulatory authorities and operators . 
ENGLISH The supervisory function would be carried out within separate companies whose capital would be open to air companies or private partners . 
ENGLISH France would certainly seem to be the odd man out in Europe , where , in most countries , air traffic control is administered by agencies , under state supervision but open to private capital . 
ENGLISH France wishes to keep these activities in the public sector . 
ENGLISH This is essential , especially as the problem with delays is not caused by air traffic control , which is responsible for less than 25 % of all delays ! 
ENGLISH In conclusion , I support the proposals to strengthen the role of Eurocontrol , the pan - European agency responsible for the management of the airspace of European states , be they members of the European Union or not , in its capacity as regulatory authority . 
ENGLISH The report is wrong to underestimate this agency' - s potential , but I have voted against a report which is completely unacceptable . 
ENGLISH . -- ( FR ) I voted against Mr Atkins' - report because it is totally at odds with the real world and is in keeping with an a priori ideological vision rather than with any concern to meet the real needs of our fellow - citizens and air transport users . 
ENGLISH We cannot , of course , deny that there is a need to improve the situation of regulation and air traffic control in Europe in the spirit of the single European sky . 
ENGLISH It is perfectly obvious that the aircraft in our airspace should not be on the receiving end of inconsistent , uncoordinated and complicated handling of their flight plans . 
ENGLISH Moreover , the United States have never liberalised their own air traffic control , as this is managed by a single state agency . 
ENGLISH That just goes to show ! 
ENGLISH The Atkins report , however , is entirely concerned with the goal of opening the service up to competition , even though it is hard to see exactly how it could be a source of private profit or how the profits made could possibly reflect its performance ! 
ENGLISH The pretext for driving forward this liberalisation , furthermore , is delays in flights . 
ENGLISH This is certainly a situation that must be remedied , but , in order to be effective , we should really analyse the actual reasons for delays and the real solutions . 
ENGLISH We should first of all note that there have been positive developments this year as delays have substantially reduced in France . 
ENGLISH This indicates in the first place that we should make a distinction between temporary disruption ( use of airspace by the military for Kosovo , the change in the control system , etc ) . 
ENGLISH and structural problems . 
ENGLISH We must also measure the problems due to the air companies or the limited European civil airspace with regard to the number of overflights . 
ENGLISH Air traffic control does not play a very significant part in causing delays , in the final analysis , and , in any case , improvement of the system involves improving the organisation of the coordination of the various Member State control systems , supporting Eurocontrol in this role . 
ENGLISH This should be the priority and the guidelines on the single European sky . 
ENGLISH Unfortunately , the Commission does not appear to be on this track , and the Atkins report is even further off the mark . 
ENGLISH -- ( NL ) The aviation sector has traditionally been organised in a particularly liberal manner . 
ENGLISH The reason for this is that governments compete with each other by building ever more and ever larger airports , and that apart from these airports , there is no need for creating infrastructure comparable to railways or motorways . 
ENGLISH As such , since time immemorial it has been common practice in this sector for different companies to compete with each other for the same route . 
ENGLISH Airfares bear out this freedom too . 
ENGLISH There is no link whatsoever between the distance to be covered and the fare . 
ENGLISH Where passengers are wanted , prices are low ; where it is believed that there are more than enough passengers , prices are high . 
ENGLISH There is little left to be liberalised in this sector . 
ENGLISH Despite this , there are people who expect further liberalisation to be a panacea . 
ENGLISH It is supposed to lead to cheaper flights , a wider range of flights and no more delays . 
ENGLISH In our opinion , a number of other aspects take priority over this , such as passenger safety , livelihoods and the working environment of the employees , environmental protection and the protection of the railway industry from price dumping and other forms of unfair competition . 
ENGLISH There is little point in blaming the workers for everything that could cause irritation among passengers . These workers are sometimes obliged to strike out of self - preservation . 
ENGLISH Safety should not come second to the pursuit of profit by companies which aim to take over Eurocontrol' - s market . 
ENGLISH The problem has far more to do with the excessive growth in aviation and price competition at the expense of long - distance rail transport . 
ENGLISH From this critical stance , we tabled 11 amendments . 
ENGLISH Since it has transpired that a majority within Parliament does not support our stance on this , we were unable to assent to the final version of the Atkins report . 
ENGLISH . -- ( PT ) Although this report deals with certain real situations , such as the increase in air traffic or the delays experienced on various routes , and although it is based on certain correct premises , specifically the need to guarantee and strengthen air transport safety , it nevertheless glosses over the underlying causes of these situations , which are inextricably linked with successive actions to liberalise air transport and with the unbridled competition that has resulted from this . 
ENGLISH In particular , it draws hasty and mistaken conclusions , which lean markedly towards the liberalisation of airspace and towards the future control of this airspace by the main air transport companies . 
ENGLISH If these guidelines were followed , they would exacerbate safety problems and would lead to greater social problems , in addition to raising questions about the sovereignty of each state over its air space . These questions are all the more relevant because this air space is shared by their respective military air forces . 
ENGLISH . -- ( FR ) On 26 June 2000, French air traffic controllers went on strike to protest against the plans of the European Union to liberalise air traffic control . I should like to show my solidarity with this strike and with the demands of the air traffic controllers' - unions . 
ENGLISH We , on the other hand , are in favour of the harmonised development of transport on a European level , prioritising the fulfilment of real social needs , and opting for railways as the best solution for most needs , particularly for distances of less than 500 kilometres . 
ENGLISH Liberalising air traffic control will not solve the problem of delays , since only 20 to 30 % of delays can be attributable to air traffic control . 
ENGLISH It is known that today the military have seized , in France for example , 80 % of the available airspace . 
ENGLISH Why has this never been challenged ? 
ENGLISH The Commission is using the delays as an excuse to move towards a split between a European regulatory office and the establishment of a privatised internal market for the provision of air traffic services . 
ENGLISH Such measures , undertaken under pressure from lobbying by air companies , can be implemented only to the detriment of safety , especially given that the companies themselves will be able to put themselves forward to provide such services . 
ENGLISH It is for all these reasons that I voted against this report . 
ENGLISH Damião Report ( A5 - 0141 / 2000 ) 
ENGLISH I voted for the Damião report , Mr President , partly because I voted for the amendment which stipulated that women on maternity leave should receive a full allowance . 
ENGLISH Maternity is not an illness . 
ENGLISH This morning , the Italian newspapers contained the news that medical treatment for dogs and cats will be tax deductible . 
ENGLISH If there is enough money to spend on dogs and cats , there ought to be enough for women on maternity leave , who are not ill but people who have the right to a full allowance . 
ENGLISH Mr President , this report on the introduction of measures to encourage improvements in the health and safety at work of pregnant workers and workers who have recently given birth or are breastfeeding is very valid and is a step in the right direction . 
ENGLISH Point 11 in particular contains many positive proposals . 
ENGLISH At the same time , I would like to warn against a development whereby we in the European Parliament end up devoting ourselves to social policies and social legislation , something which I think is , on all accounts , the duty of the Member States . 
ENGLISH It is a very important part of the cultural and social identity which every nation and every country creates . 
ENGLISH This is one of the most important questions of all in every election campaign in Sweden and in other countries . 
ENGLISH Mr President , the pregnant mother and her unborn child , mothers who have recently given birth and breastfeeding mothers need as much support as possible during this very important period , which is important not only to the individual mother and child but also to society , remembering the low birth rate and ageing population in Europe today . 
ENGLISH Certainly companies have social responsibilities . But surely governments should set an example , especially in those countries like my own where the role of mother and the family is protected in the constitution . 
ENGLISH Unfortunately this does not appear to be the case in Ireland regarding paid maternity leave , facilities for breastfeeding and exemption from night shifts . 
ENGLISH I give these examples to highlight the fact that just because a directive has been agreed it does not mean it has been implemented . 
ENGLISH It is high time we stopped paying lip service to working mothers , their children and their families in our European Community . 
ENGLISH . -- ( FR ) In this report , we voted in favour of the paragraphs which contributed towards protecting the working women , both in terms of their health and wages and in terms of children' - s health . 
ENGLISH It is , however , to be deplored that the report does not even propose to bring the advantages and rights into line with the countries where these are most favourable to pregnant women in work . 
ENGLISH Moreover , we should not like our vote in favour of the specific protection of women night - workers during pregnancy to be interpreted as legitimising women' - s working night shifts . 
ENGLISH Quite the contrary , we wish to restate our opposition to night work , if it is not socially useful , not just for women , but also for men . 
ENGLISH The prohibition of night work for women is a right acquired by the working movement in France . 
ENGLISH To revoke this would be a retrograde step in social terms . 
ENGLISH To speak of equality between men and women is hypocrisy . 
ENGLISH This hypocrisy is intended to conceal the fact that the legislator is more concerned to reassure employers that their factories may be operated profitably than to guarantee the health and safety of employees . 
ENGLISH I have every sympathy with this desire but the amendment is superfluous as Article 137 ( 2 ) of the Treaty clearly states that " directives in the social field including Health and Safety shall avoid imposing administrative , financial and legal constraints in a way which would hold back the creation and development of SMEs " . 
ENGLISH I believe therefore that the sentiments expressed in the amendment are already covered and it is unnecessary to repeat this in the report . 
ENGLISH . -- ( EL ) Here we stand once again under a shower of good intentions which , even if translated into a set of positive proposals , are doomed to remain dead letter because they get nowhere near the nub of the problem and do not touch on the main trend causing the problem . 
ENGLISH The European Parliament 's proposal contains numerous positive proposals which are negated by its very inability to set out the problem of negative developments in labour and labour relations as a whole . 
ENGLISH Because no attention is given to the main trend towards restructuring labour relations and reducing and abolishing the fundamental rights acquired by workers or framework labour conditions such as minimal working times and conditions , temporary and part - time employment and cuts in social security and protection , the resultant framework is completely negative and non - conducive to the application of any policy to protect working women during and after pregnancy . 
ENGLISH We wish to point out and highlight the risks inherent in a strict prohibition on dismissal , especially under the present , extended regime of generalised atypical employment contracts and the indirect exclusion of pregnant women from jobs , a regime in which we need not just to maintain and consolidate but to increase maternity leave , define the maternity allowance more clearly and apply strict and more substantive controls on night work by pregnant and breastfeeding working women . 
ENGLISH Not only must we strengthen the legal framework protecting the health and safety of pregnant women and rectify omissions and clarify ambiguities -- the " Trojan horses " used to bypass and infringe legislation - , we also need to deal with the lack of political will on the part of national governments to apply the directive properly , a lack which is sorely in evidence from the sluggish state of control mechanisms in the Member States during the previous period . 
ENGLISH A typical example is Greece , where there are no controls on employers' obligation to carry out an integrated written assessment of occupational hazards in the workplace , including a specific assessment of the hazards to pregnant and breastfeeding women . 
ENGLISH Experience has demonstrated that reducing employability and " adaptability " to guideline Community priorities on employment issues renders any protection basically non - existent and cancels any individual arrangements in practice . 
ENGLISH The problem is : what guidelines are being issued , what sort of employment policy is being applied ? 
ENGLISH And unfortunately , we have confirmation that the EU wants to make more drastic cuts to allowances and social insurance , to amend and downgrade provisions on dismissal and to reduce and abolish provisions to protect working conditions . 
ENGLISH We must not delude ourselves as to the nature of employment policy and the social policy of the EU in general or the interests which it represents , which is why , despite sharing the EU 's positive position on the protection of working women , we believe this is nothing more than yet another report of ideas and good intentions . 
ENGLISH We therefore call on working women and men to continue their social fight for an overall change of policy and for a policy which centres on man and respect for his needs and dignity . 
ENGLISH A fight geared primarily to the implementation of the principle of full and stable employment , with full , consolidated social rights for everyone . 
ENGLISH Only such a framework will safeguard the rights of the particularly sensitive category of pregnant women and the rights and respect for life as something other than the raw material of profit , subject to the laws of costs , competition and inexorable market forces . 
ENGLISH . -- ( FR ) We are in favour of all the amendments to the directive seeking to improve the protection of pregnant employees before , during and after their maternity leave . 
ENGLISH The resolution proposes to remedy some of the omissions in the present directive and to harmonise European legislative systems to align them with those that guarantee the most rights . 
ENGLISH A strict European framework must be established to protect pregnant women against any form of discrimination during recruitment , regarding issues of their working conditions , access to maternity leave or its duration : 20 weeks including 8 mandatory weeks after the birth . 
ENGLISH Women must be protected against any wrongful dismissal and their former wage must be guaranteed . 
ENGLISH Finally , night work must be prohibited for both men and women in sectors where it is not absolutely essential , rather than seeking to modify the conditions for pregnant women . 
ENGLISH Short sea shipping 
ENGLISH The rapporteur , Mrs Peijs , has the floor . 
ENGLISH Mr President , in 1995, the Commission submitted the communication on the development of short sea shipping on the basis of the strategy which was formulated in the White Paper on the common transport policy . 
ENGLISH The second annual progress report on this draft is now before us . 
ENGLISH However , after five years , it has become clear that short shipping is still merely an empty promise which has not been kept , despite the verbal support by the Transport Council of 8 December 1999, which considered short sea shipping as a priority . 
ENGLISH We are not trying to boost the popularity of short sea shipping out of idealistic motives . 
ENGLISH It is impossible to meet this growing demand by road transport alone . 
ENGLISH Short sea shipping is therefore not a competitor of road transport , the train or transport using inland waterways , it is one of the modes in the transport chain . 
ENGLISH It is in everyone' - s interest to keep the irritation communities are caused by the constant drone of through freight transport to a minimum . 
ENGLISH Transport should also be as clean as possible and in that respect too , short sea shipping meets high requirements . 
ENGLISH Speed might not be the main feature of short sea shipping , safety is . 
ENGLISH Weekend traffic bans and traffic jams are a curse to road transport . 
ENGLISH In many cases , short sea shipping can provide a solution to these problems if it is used in combination with other modes of transport . 
ENGLISH At the same time , I do not want to claim here that it is a panacea . 
ENGLISH We will take the pressure off quite substantially if we try to make the best use of all modes of transport and combine them in the best way we can . 
ENGLISH But in order to do this , a number of conditions do need to be met . 
ENGLISH In its communication , the Commission makes a distinct reference to industry itself . 
ENGLISH This is fine , but as rapporteur , I would like to add another dimension . 
ENGLISH In its communication , the European Commission provided a sound overview of the issue as a whole . 
ENGLISH Parliament and your rapporteur have looked at the Commission plans with a critical eye and tried , in consultation with all parties involved , as befits a Parliament , to compile this report . 
ENGLISH Industry was asked to raise practical issues which could , in their view , obstruct the development of short sea shipping . 
ENGLISH We are still awaiting this report . 
ENGLISH I would like to underline a few aspects . 
ENGLISH Once again , short sea shipping can only take off in Europe if it is considered an integral part of the transport chain . 
ENGLISH As such , it is important that short shipping is integrated with other modes of transport and this means that infrastructure will need to meet certain requirements . 
ENGLISH Short sea shipping is also eminently suited to specialist transport . Cars are a good example of this . 
ENGLISH Innovation in the construction of specialist ships will prove decisive here and this could give our shipbuilding industry a shot in the arm . 
ENGLISH The sector' - s image is also important and must clearly be cleaned up . 
ENGLISH The sector is suffering from excessive red tape . 
ENGLISH Procedures last forever . 
ENGLISH But increasingly , we can also point to many positive developments within the sector . 
ENGLISH Industry should take its responsibility there , for example , in the setting up of regional promotion and marketing agencies , but the market cannot do this on its own . 
ENGLISH Member States must lift obstructions . 
ENGLISH For example , the road transport monopoly springs to mind , with the impact this has on the levels at which short sea shipping should pitch its prices to tie in with Bilbao' - s short sea port . 
ENGLISH At every level , excessive bureaucratic procedures and endless red tape accompany the cargo . 
ENGLISH This puts short sea shipping at a disadvantage compared to other modes of transport . 
ENGLISH Accordingly Parliament calls for this sector to be treated with the necessary flexibility , thus enabling this sector to acquire a better position in terms of affordability . 
ENGLISH For example , we have in mind the introduction of exemptions from pilot service in ports where captains can demonstrate they have a high level of experience . 
ENGLISH By the way , an irritating error has crept in to the erratum , where the experience of the pilot is referred to . 
ENGLISH The market is still fragmented at present . 
ENGLISH This is why in its report , Parliament points to the need for a one - stop - shop approach to offering logistical transport services to end users . These services should embrace all multi - modal transport services and should , in this way , counteract the fragmentation of the present services . 
ENGLISH In my report , I also call for incentives from the Commission , which are needed to promote short shipping . 
ENGLISH In view of the European connections , I would also ask for investment projects in mainly the Mediterranean Sea area and the ports along the Adriatic Sea . 
ENGLISH Short sea shipping requires destinations . 
ENGLISH You may have wonderful short sea terminals in Rotterdam , but you need to have a destination . 
ENGLISH The setting up of these new lines requires critical mass and it could be one or two years before these resources are available . 
ENGLISH The European Union will need to help out by providing cheap loans from the European Investment Bank in order to overcome this difficulty . 
ENGLISH Furthermore , we are lacking information and statistical data on which industry can base its investments . 
ENGLISH I believe that statistical data on what we transport where is one of the things we need as a matter of urgency in order to pursue a policy for transport , which will grow at an amazing rate in the next couple of years . 
ENGLISH Mr President , on behalf of my colleagues Ripoll and Pérez Álvarez , who have worked on this report -- but who are not able to be here -- I would like to congratulate the rapporteur , Mrs Peijs , on her marvellous report , in particular because it deals with a problem which is important for very real and practical reasons . 
ENGLISH Furthermore , I wish to say that there are two things which I am regretting right now : firstly , that I am not able to hear the opinion of our friend Mr Fatuzzo on how short sea shipping affects the interests of European pensioners , and secondly , that so few Members are present because , considering the egotistical interests of this House , it is probable that one day they will regret not having found out about the issue of short sea shipping , because they will perhaps have to use it one day to travel to and from Strasbourg . 
ENGLISH Turning to the background to the issue , I must tell Mrs Peijs that we have followed with great interest the developments and actions which in recent years , especially on the basis of the creation of the forum for the maritime industries , have been taking place in the European Union with a view to promoting short sea shipping as an alternative to land transport . 
ENGLISH Both the Commission' - s report and the rapporteur' - s report illustrate the different comparative advantages of each type of transport , of which , in the case of sea transport , I would like to highlight the fact that the infrastructures are less saturated , the fact that they are less expensive , they consume less energy and therefore emit fewer pollutants into the atmosphere and they improve communications with the outermost regions of the European Union . 
ENGLISH I would like to highlight the fact that in the last two years there have been a series of actions which have had positive effects on short sea shipping . 
ENGLISH Consequently , rather than bringing the relative positions of sea transport and road transport closer together , the difference between them has continued to increase . 
ENGLISH Mrs Peijs' - s report seems to us to be very balanced , but we would like to draw your attention to one of the key objectives for the promotion of short sea shipping : the simultaneous reduction of the time and direct cost involved in port operations for ships which provide this type of service . 
ENGLISH In many cases , the port services -- both with regard to the ship and the goods -- are faced with no effective competition or with very limited competition and this means that there is often abuse of dominant positions , such as the imposition of obligatory services which are not necessary or are not even used , for example , piloting , towing , mooring and port handling , as well as the payment of very high tariffs . 
ENGLISH What is certainly the case is that , apart from very few exceptions , transoceanic services do not have to face competition from roads and , in most cases , air transport does not offer any practical competition to them . 
ENGLISH For all these reasons , we believe that , if the intention is to promote short sea shipping in a realistic and effective way , it is essential to reorganise the current provision of port services , by improving their efficiency and reducing their costs . 
ENGLISH We should also bear in mind what this means for the economies of the areas in which there is a ship - building industry . 
ENGLISH This means a revitalisation of the whole area , as is well known by the people who live in those cities , in those regions , in which the ship - building industry is a very active element in the local economy . 
ENGLISH We see large quantities of goods transported round our continent on safe , environmentally - friendly ships . 
ENGLISH That takes the burden off overland transport by adding another link to the chain of intermodal transport . 
ENGLISH Of course we are still many sea miles away from making this vision come true , although some progress has been made over the past two years , as the report shows . 
ENGLISH Mrs Peijs' - good report describes the existing obstacles and the strategies for realising our visions . 
ENGLISH There was broad agreement in committee . 
ENGLISH What can we do internally for short sea shipping ? I just want to mention a few things . 
ENGLISH In the technical field we can introduce more environmentally - friendly technology for ships' - engines and specific terminals for express transhipment . 
ENGLISH In the organisational field , and especially for cross - frontier transport , we can introduce uniform shipping documentation , simplified administrative procedures and fewer pilot services in cases where they are not absolutely necessary . 
ENGLISH What can we do for short sea shipping as a link in the intermodal chain ? 
ENGLISH First , we can improve the interfaces with other modes of transport by introducing modern systems of transhipment -- especially to inland shipping -- standardising containers , promoting transport logistics services for the entire transport chain and by many other means mentioned in the report . 
ENGLISH I think we should also consider all these matters with a view to our pre - accession strategies . 
ENGLISH Meanwhile we have the activity of the round tables . 
ENGLISH It would be sensible to engage in more research and above all to set up demonstration projects in the field of intermodal transport . 
ENGLISH All in all the report offers a whole package of sensible proposals . 
ENGLISH I hope that the next progress report in two years' - time will tell us that we have moved a little closer to our vision , our vision of a successful intermodal transport system in Europe . 
ENGLISH Mr President , there are three aspects of Mrs Peijs' excellent report that I would like to highlight and illustrate by way of example . 
ENGLISH Although these come from my own constituency , I know they are representative of many similar regions . 
ENGLISH First , intermodality and the need to optimise infrastructure links to the hinterland . 
ENGLISH This week we have voted for environmentally - friendly measures designed to encourage more freight on to rail . 
ENGLISH Good rail access into ports is vital in this context . 
ENGLISH We have to accept , however , that there are times when it is roads that provide the necessary access into the hinterland . 
ENGLISH I cite the placing on the TENs map of the A75 from Gretna to Stranraer , given its importance for sea transport to and from Northern Ireland . 
ENGLISH Second , the extent to which outlying regions and islands depend on the sea for contacts with their neighbours . 
ENGLISH We often look on the sea as something that separates communities . We are better viewing it as a highway that connects them . 
ENGLISH I would add , though , that for environmental sustainability we should look upon connections between peninsulas in the same way . 
ENGLISH In the west of Scotland the route from Gourock to Dunoon is twenty times as far by road as it is by sea and that from Tarbert to Portavadie is twenty five times as far . 
ENGLISH Third , it is essential that we continue to recognise the lifeline nature of many short sea shipping routes . 
ENGLISH I am not thinking just in terms of the need to sustain public service obligations in this context . 
ENGLISH We also need to find other permissible ways of reducing the costs associated with transport to island and outlying communities . 
ENGLISH Their economies are invariably fragile ones and it is just not good enough that the farmers on the Isle of Lewis have to pay twice as much for their hay as farmers living near Inverness . 
ENGLISH I hope the Commission will take such points into serious consideration when developing policy in the area . 
ENGLISH Mr President , in this group we welcome the Peijs report and we welcome the Commission 's stance to which it is responding . 
ENGLISH It is indeed true that short sea shipping is environmentally friendly and cost - effective , and it is indeed true that it supports the economic development of maritime regions ; but we in Scotland call upon the Commission , therefore , to get its act together in respect of the forthcoming liberalisation of sea transport in the west of Scotland . 
ENGLISH As Mrs Attwooll has just pointed out , we not only have island transport there but also important short sea links across what we call sea lochs and the geologists call fjords , where instead of going 150 kilometres up a narrow road over a mountain pass , you can take a boat across a narrow water . 
ENGLISH If we were to interpret the regulation on maritime cabotage sensibly , we would say : Of course these peninsulas are functionally equivalent to islands , and public service obligations apply in these cases as well . 
ENGLISH In that case it would be quite lawful for the state to support the services there . 
ENGLISH In the same way , one could then take a holistic look at the package of routes across the west of Scotland , instead of breaking it up , inviting cherry - picking by private entrepreneurs who come in to take the few paying routes and make it harder to sustain the routes which are not profitable all the year round . 
ENGLISH We want a holistic look at that kind of thing throughout Europe , we want an imaginative approach by the Commission . 
ENGLISH It is six weeks since I put a question to the Commission asking if it would treat the peninsulas as equivalent to islands . 
ENGLISH Earlier it had claimed intimate knowledge of the west of Scotland . 
ENGLISH I ask it to reply as a matter of urgency . 
ENGLISH Mr President , Mrs Peijs , ladies and gentlemen , the Commission' - s communication on the development of short sea shipping in Europe and the very good report on it by Mrs Peijs give a realistic picture of the development of this environmentally - friendly mode of transport in Europe over the past two years . 
ENGLISH The development and promotion of short sea shipping are a particularly important step on the way to developing a system of multimodal transport for the European Union and bordering regions . 
ENGLISH Efficiency , cost - effectiveness , environmental compatibility and sustainability distinguish this form of transport from road transport and can offer a serious alternative in coastal regions . 
ENGLISH However , it is also most important to improve the cooordination between the various modes of transport so as to bring out the specific strengths of each of them most effectively . 
ENGLISH That is why the public and private sector must adopt a range of European , national and regional aid measures to adapt and develop the ports , which are the nerve centre of the transport chain , and target these measures at the specific requirements . 
ENGLISH Furthermore ; it is important to adapt the related technical and organisational aspects , such as administrative formalities and documents , customs and embarkation procedures , to ensure the rapid and smooth change from one mode of transport to another and from one country to another . 
ENGLISH Other support measures should include special incentives for the development of innovative technologies , special pre - embarkation terminals for short sea shipping and integrating the ports in the development strategy for the coastal regions . 
ENGLISH This is an important means of strengthening economic and social cohesion and the links between the centres and the peripheral areas in the European Union . 
ENGLISH The integration of short sea shipping in the logistics chain of door - to - door delivery can be an effective means of sustaining the growing economic cooperation between the EU and its neighbouring states and satisfying the growing need for transport that accompanies it . 
ENGLISH Mr President , I would like to say the following on behalf of Mr van Dam . 
ENGLISH Transport policy requires choices . 
ENGLISH Sustainable transport policy requires even more , or at least other , choices . 
ENGLISH The task which we in this House have is to facilitate the transport of goods and passengers in such a way as to keep adverse side - effects to a minimum . 
ENGLISH The mode of transport we are discussing here , short sea shipping , has the reputation of being a mode of transport which can counter the negative effects of the transport sector , especially in terms of the space occupied and environmental pollution , in more than one way . 
ENGLISH However , as Mrs Peijs rightly points out , the sector is not taking full advantage of the opportunities at the moment . 
ENGLISH I would like to highlight a number of aspects . 
ENGLISH This is certainly true , relatively speaking . 
ENGLISH However , progress made in this sphere in other sectors , especially road transport , is undermining this position . 
ENGLISH If ports refuse to turn a ship , swift action is most definitely required . 
ENGLISH Given the developments in the road transport sector as a result of new European emission standards for fuels , I am of the opinion that in order to boost the environmental performance of short sea shipping , we need to lay down a European directive concerning maximum permitted emission levels generated by ships' - engines . 
ENGLISH Furthermore , unlike certain fellow delegates , I am of the opinion that short sea shipping should not only supplement existing modes of transport , it should also operate as an alternative to intra - Community transport . 
ENGLISH Given the problems surrounding distribution or with regard to reducing ECO points in Austria , we very much welcome an alternative route from North to South and vice versa . 
ENGLISH A third aspect concerns the situation at ports . 
ENGLISH If we want short sea shipping to become more competitive in terms of speed , we will need measures to simplify customs and ( dis ) embarkation procedures . The rapporteur is right to point this out . 
ENGLISH If the sector then operates more efficiently and according to more up - to - date standards , it is vital to broadcast its potential . 
ENGLISH In a number of countries , including the Netherlands , promotion offices have been set up successfully with this goal in mind . 
ENGLISH It is therefore advisable for national or regional authorities to do their bit in order to develop this sector . 
ENGLISH In short , Mrs Peijs' - report is comprehensive and I would like to congratulate her on this . 
ENGLISH If those involved take up their responsibilities , we are bound to conclude in a number of years what the Netherlands already knows : - & # x2018 ; Transport by sea , the best route & # x2019 ; - ! 
ENGLISH Mr President , to visitors from afar , the sea crossing to the Scottish islands is the stuff of romance , and indeed the beauty never fails to move both native and visitor . 
ENGLISH But for those who live and make their living there , the island shipping services are both an essential lifeline and a costly hurdle to be overcome for their economic and social well - being . 
ENGLISH The costs that impede are not only the fares , difficult as those often are , but also the inconvenience of pre - booking , of waiting in queues , of fitting in with timetables which provide low and variable frequencies ; and then there are the risks of delays and cancellation due to weather or mechanical breakdown , or strikes which hold the islands to ransom from time to time . 
ENGLISH There is considerable concern on the Scottish islands at the moment that the EU 's competition policy , which requires putting these services out to competitive tender , will undermine these lifeline services even at their present level and add a further upward ratchet to the cost of living and of doing business . 
ENGLISH We need to reassure those who live and work on these vulnerable islands and remote peninsulas that they have nothing to fear from bringing a measure of competition into the process for awarding these contracts . 
ENGLISH Can I ask the Commission to do what it can to reassure the Scottish islands , the Scottish executive that is struggling with this situation at the moment and the Scottish Parliament , that it stands ready to make sure that this process works well , that it does not undermine but improves the shipping services in the Scottish islands . 
ENGLISH Perhaps through Commission Verheugen I can pass an invitation to the Transport Commissioner , his colleague , Mrs de Palacio , to accompany me on a romantic trip to the Scottish islands . 
ENGLISH Of course , the basic sector is passenger transport , but the report under discussion focuses on freight transport in response to the Commission 's communication . 
ENGLISH It is worth noting that , although the volume of traffic carried by this form of transport has risen over recent years , road transport has fared better , meaning that special attention needs to be given to this more environmentally - friendly form of transport . 
ENGLISH The current situation is still pretty off - putting for the public , which is given the impression that this is a fairly outdated , slow and complicated means of transport . 
ENGLISH The development of maritime transport is further hampered by administrative procedures in need of improvement and delays , an incomplete infrastructure and the obscure fees levied by some ports , together with unnecessary mooring charges . 
ENGLISH But we can still improve its image and turn it into a viable alternative solution for types of freight which can be transported by various methods . 
ENGLISH I refer , of course , to places which are not restricted to maritime transport , such as islands , which must always warrant special attention . 
ENGLISH The private sector has a basic role , but there are aspects of the market which call for intervention by public - sector agencies at regional , national and European level and even financial aid , so that islanders do not feel that they are second - class Europeans . 
ENGLISH Developing cabotage has an immediate impact on social and economic development in our regions and hence on the cohesion of the European Union . 
ENGLISH The rapporteur has obviously approached the subject matter in this spirit and has taken her work very seriously ; as an islander I feel obliged to extend her my special thanks . 
ENGLISH I should also like to thank Commissioner Verheugen who , I see , has put his headphones on . Thank you for your attention earlier on during the explanations of vote by the honourable members . 
ENGLISH Mr President , Commissioner , at a time when we are trying to correct regional disparities , Mrs Peijs' - s report is very opportune , since it deals with the matter of short sea shipping and asks Member States and the Commission to adopt measures to promote this type of transport . 
ENGLISH As always , I would like to remind you that the regional and structural policy of the Union , as a whole , is a response to the specific disadvantages suffered by certain European regions , such as the so - called outermost regions . 
ENGLISH Last March , the Commission presented a report which lays out a strategy aimed at the sustainable development of those regions and which includes various principal aspects , notably those regions' - relations with the areas in their geographical vicinity , which , to a certain extent , largely condition their development . 
ENGLISH Therefore , we believe that Mrs Peijs' - s report is opportune , especially if it is reinforced by the amendment I have presented on the inclusion of sea transport between ports in the outermost regions and ports in the vicinity of those regions . 
ENGLISH In this way , we could correct the error made by the Commission when it drew up the two - yearly report on the development of this type of transport , of employing an incomplete definition of short sea shipping . 
ENGLISH Mr President , Commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , short sea shipping is the most economical , most efficient , and most suitable solution for remote regions . 
ENGLISH I would like to thank Mrs Peijs for her interesting and excellent proposal . 
ENGLISH In my own country , shipping is almost totally of this short sea shipping type : in other words , it is important to us in that respect . 
ENGLISH We are unusual in that we only have a land connection with the rest of the EU in the north , so the importance of maritime traffic is enormous . 
ENGLISH On top of everything , our railways have a different gauge from those found elsewhere in the European Union . 
ENGLISH What is most peculiar about our situation is , however , that our shipping always comes to a halt in the winter unless certain measures are taken , because the sea freezes . 
ENGLISH This has led to a situation where we have had to establish a special fleet to break the ice . 
ENGLISH They are powerful ships : one ship' - s energy is equivalent to that used by a whole city . 
ENGLISH This being the case -- as we have this hindrance to movement -- we hope that this ice - breaking operation may be supported , as the obstacle has been ordained by the Lord , and we cannot do a thing about it . 
ENGLISH It is also to be regretted that the effects on employment and welfare of this sort of traffic have not been highlighted sufficiently . 
ENGLISH A cheap workforce is a huge risk in these circumstances , especially in the north , and especially in ice . 
ENGLISH How can someone wearing shorts , who has no professional skill to his name , cope in minus thirty degrees and three metres of ice ? 
ENGLISH That is the problem . 
ENGLISH Aircrews are always well trained , but the same cannot be said of the cheap workforce that is employed on ships . 
ENGLISH I expect the Commission to look into this matter . 
ENGLISH This week here in Parliament there have been many important reports on the subject of transport , all aimed at relieving congestion and reducing bottlenecks . 
ENGLISH Mrs Peijs' - s splendid report aims at exploiting the opportunities offered by short sea shipping . 
ENGLISH It is an important addition to the reports on railways and air traffic . 
ENGLISH We indeed need viable and competitive logistical chains linking road traffic , rail transport , short sea shipping and , in addition , modern information technology . 
ENGLISH For remote countries across the seas , and that includes Finland , short sea shipping is an absolutely vital necessity , just as Mr Paasilinna there just said . 
ENGLISH I wish to mention the importance of the suitability and availability of ports and port services . 
ENGLISH Ports must be included in the Trans - European Network as part of the transport infrastructure . 
ENGLISH For the measures proposed in the report to be implemented , good levels of co - operation will be required between the Union , Member States , players at local level , and companies too , as will genuine investment of time and money in short sea shipping . 
ENGLISH Mr President , first of all I should like to congratulate the rapporteur on an excellent report . 
ENGLISH Quite clearly she has spent a lot of time on it and has brought a lot of problems to light . 
ENGLISH We can see the different problems quite clearly from different areas of the European Union . 
ENGLISH Each area has its own particular problem . 
ENGLISH We have to recognise that it will take time to achieve our ultimate goal . 
ENGLISH But there is no doubt that short sea shipping is something we must strive to achieve better than we have up to now . 
ENGLISH It is certainly sensible to ship more goods by sea rather than by road . 
ENGLISH It is more environmentally friendly , more acceptable in every way . 
ENGLISH That is what the rapporteur has been striving for . 
ENGLISH One of the greatest problems will always be the cost factor . 
ENGLISH To be competitive ports have to be more efficient and for this they will certainly require more support . 
ENGLISH I support Mrs Attwooll 's appeal for the A75 . 
ENGLISH It is our main outlet for all we produce . 
ENGLISH From Scotland they trundle down to England . 
ENGLISH For our industry or agriculture to survive they have to be cost - effective . 
ENGLISH We had a very good ferry service set up between Ballycastle and the south of Scotland which was forced to close recently because of lack of support and bureaucracy . 
ENGLISH Mr President , Mrs Peijs , I should first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur on the quality of her report . 
ENGLISH Moreover , in recent years , this form of transport has enjoyed an unquestionable success , even though it is not very well known , or not well enough . 
ENGLISH It does however offer , as you said , advantages in terms of costs , energy , efficiency , regional cohesion , the environment and even intermodality , as it is an ideal means in the implementation of multimodal transportation . 
ENGLISH Measures must therefore be taken at the earliest possible opportunity to step up the efficiency of dockside operations and reduce waiting times in port . 
ENGLISH Speaking personally , I would insist on the public authorities playing a part , at regional as well as national and European levels . 
ENGLISH There are , however , two points in your report that I have a problem with . 
ENGLISH Firstly , the proposal to draw up a list of ports particularly suitable for short sea shipping . 
ENGLISH I do not consider such a list to be necessary , as it entails a risk of penalising the ports which are not currently entirely suitable , but which are going to be modified in future . 
ENGLISH I am in favour of an information system but , personally , I reject the idea that a thriving major port should have central control of all the services . 
ENGLISH Finally , I should have liked , as a member of the Industry Committee , to have heard someone say clearly that short sea shipping must not be considered as an alternative , but that indeed an intermodal strategy should be found , establishing complementarity between modes of transport . 
ENGLISH In this context and in this spirit , the Member States should moreover harmonise their regulations so as to prevent distortions , which , particularly in the case of mainland transport , often cause hold - ups . 
ENGLISH If we wish to achieve a multimodal system , it is important to have a set of means of transport and regulations that are , if not common to all , then at least perfectly harmonised . 
ENGLISH Mr President , let me thank Mrs Peijs for her excellent report and for the work she put into it . 
ENGLISH The report show that short sea shipping is an issue on which there is the widest agreement between you , the Member States , and the Commission and the agreement goes further . 
ENGLISH I know of no one and no organisation which does not wish to see short sea shipping developed . 
ENGLISH In the past we were guilty of talking short sea shipping down . 
ENGLISH We mentioned its potential and by doing so implicitly said that it was not really doing very well . 
ENGLISH But it is doing well . 
ENGLISH It was not much publicised but short sea shipping was the only mode of transport which , during the 90s , could more or less keep pace with the development of road transport . 
ENGLISH So we must give credit to the short sea shipping industry . 
ENGLISH However there is always room for improvement . The shipping industry is the first to acknowledge this . 
ENGLISH Let me mention a few key issues in Mrs Peijs report . 
ENGLISH We need a comprehensive approach to make this a genuine door - to - door concept . 
ENGLISH It must be fully integrated in the transport chain and be offered through one - stop shops . 
ENGLISH One area which has already been identified is the diversity of documents required . 
ENGLISH To create more uniformity , the Commission intends to present a proposal by the end of the year aiming to harmonise certain ships' arrival and departure documents . 
ENGLISH The efficiency of ports is crucial for short sea shipping , and also by the end of the year the Commission will present a package of measures intended to enhance that efficiency through liberalisation . 
ENGLISH Further , the old fashioned image of short sea shipping needs to be changed . That was already mentioned in the debate and I appreciate that very much . 
ENGLISH National short sea promotion offices should play an essential role in implementing this policy . 
ENGLISH In the debate the question of Community grants was raised , and I would like to answer the question here . 
ENGLISH The main source of Community grants to short sea shipping has in the past been the PACT Programme , that is a Pilot Action for Combined Transport . 
ENGLISH Last year around 40 % of the PACT budget was used to favour combined short sea shipping and that amounts to EUR 2.3 million . 
ENGLISH It will even be more in the 2000 . We will increase the share up to 50 % . 
ENGLISH The DG responsible aims to continue this trend , so that short sea shipping will continue to receive its fair share of the PACT budget . 
ENGLISH In the forthcoming revision of PACT this principle could even be incorporated into the legal text . 
ENGLISH Mr Purvis , has asked me to pass an invitation to Commissioner de Palacio . 
ENGLISH I certainly will do that and Mrs Palacio will enjoy a romantic trip to Scotland . 
ENGLISH It would be even more romantic if you would invite me to accompany her . 
ENGLISH Mrs Peijs , thank you for your work . 
ENGLISH Thank you for ensuring that we all move in the same direction . 
ENGLISH Let us all do it together , the Commission will certainly do its best . 
ENGLISH Mr President , I should like to express my disappointment that on a matter on which I have had a written question before the Commission for more than six weeks , and which I raised in the debate , I have had no acknowledgement , far less a reply . 
ENGLISH Thank you very much , Mr MacCormick . 
ENGLISH The vote will take place tomorrow , Friday , at 9 a.m . 
ENGLISH Civil dialogue 
ENGLISH The next item is the oral question to the Commission ( B5 - 0533 / 2000 ) , on behalf of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs , on the future financing of the civil dialogue . 
ENGLISH Mr Pronk has the floor . 
ENGLISH Mr President , I hope that , at this late stage , we will not be taking up too much time . 
ENGLISH It is unfortunate that we now have to round up this important debate , which is important on its own merits . 
ENGLISH If I can use this opportunity , I would just like to say that it would perhaps be sensible if in future , for example , we do not manage to vote on a Tuesday evening , we could squeeze in an extra round of voting , so that we do not incur further delays during the rest of the week . 
ENGLISH You might be able to submit this to the Bureau for their consideration . 
ENGLISH But this is , of course , not really related to these issues . 
ENGLISH I do not need to add too many explanatory notes . 
ENGLISH Firstly , it is indisputable that non - governmental organisations play a vital role in Member States , in the European Union and outside of the European Union . Everyone is agreed on this . 
ENGLISH This is something which the Council states , and which is backed up frequently by the Commission and this Parliament . 
ENGLISH Also , Article 136 of the European Treaty , in combination with declarations 23 and 38, underlines that cooperation with Wohlfahrtsverbände ( welfare associations ) is necessary , and these are also non - governmental organisations , of course . 
ENGLISH The European Parliament has always put its money where its mouth is and has for some time , for some considerable time , created a line , B3 4101 in order to finance non - governmental organisations . 
ENGLISH However , as a result of different provisions which have been agreed in conjunction with the Council , and following judgments by the Court of Justice , this line has now more or less expired after three years . 
ENGLISH The European Commission has been aware of this for three years . 
ENGLISH This is not the issue . 
ENGLISH This issue is that so little is happening . 
ENGLISH On the one hand , the great need is staring us in the face while on the other we see little in the way of specific action , except for the document which the Commission has issued and which we are specifically asking after . 
ENGLISH The six million dollar question now is how we can translate the finely worded ideas we have all expressed into reality . 
ENGLISH What I am saying on my own behalf , not on behalf of the Commission , is that bureaucratic issues are bound to crop up . 
ENGLISH The reason for this could be that there are different Commission directorates involved . 
ENGLISH NGOs are not restricted to one directorate general . 
ENGLISH It could be that they are looking for a general angle and at the same time specific angles , but at any rate , this is all taking up too much time , as the budget lines are expiring . 
ENGLISH This is also the reason why we are drawing the Commission' - s attention to this issue this evening , in itself not a very appropriate time . 
ENGLISH Speed is the main issue . 
ENGLISH It is not so much the Commission' - s intention which is at issue , but the speed with which certain things can be brought about . 
ENGLISH We might otherwise run the risk of failing to implement not just a core task stipulated in the European Treaty , but also what has been stated by the European Council in Feira , because NGOs -- and this is the only problem -- are extremely sensitive , at least the majority of them , to breaks in payments to them . 
ENGLISH They are far more sensitive to this than other organisations , and certainly Member States . 
ENGLISH This means that if we wait around for too long , the patient will die . 
ENGLISH This is the serious concern which we have in our committee . 
ENGLISH This is the reason why we are asking these questions and this is also the reason why we hope that the Commission will tackle this matter with due haste within the scope which the Treaty offers and within the generally benevolent climate which the Council and Commission have displayed in Feira , as witnessed by the European Parliament . 
ENGLISH Mr President , I can be extremely brief . 
ENGLISH I thought the response by the Commissioner was encouraging on its own merits . 
ENGLISH I think he is right in stating that we in Parliament should make every effort not to obstruct procedures . 
ENGLISH I should point out , however , that we in Parliament have tried our hardest , using all the means at our disposal , to keep those budget lines up and running that enabled us to continue financing NGOs . 
ENGLISH This can only be stretched so far and speed is then of the essence . 
ENGLISH I would like to make one last point following on from the official reply by the Commissioner on the Intergovernmental Conference . 
ENGLISH It is , in fact , not so much the content of the present Treaty or present declarations which is at issue , in fact he is more concerned to adapt these declarations , presumably in such a way as to form a legal basis from them , so that a programme can be based on them . 
ENGLISH This is the problem , in fact , and I would ask the Commissioner whether it would be possible to give this matter further attention within the Commission . 
ENGLISH As such , we are thus not asking for a new treaty , but for some attention . 
ENGLISH Finally , because we are of course involved in the development of NGOs in the new Member States , in the context of enlargement , we believe that this should be given extremely high priority . 
ENGLISH Mr President , I am speaking on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists in support of Mr Pronk 's words on behalf of the Committee as a whole . 
ENGLISH I have to say that I was not totally satisfied by the Commissioners' responses , in that the documents that were referred to , with which we are familiar , as Mr Pronk said , need to contain time frames and rather more practical decision . 
ENGLISH As we know , we have been discussing the issue for years . 
ENGLISH Parliament has played a fundamental role in this dialogue , but it is now time to move on from dialogue and declarations to concrete action . 
ENGLISH The Commission needs to start putting forward practical solutions , for otherwise the issue will never be resolved . 
ENGLISH I can see a certain contradiction and I am concerned , and I believe I speak for the rest of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs as well , that behaviour within the Commission in relation to the issue appears to be somewhat contradictory . 
ENGLISH The role of the non - governmental organisations in the democratic construction of the Union and the economic and social role they play in Europe , the entire social economy sector , the third sector , is now acknowledged in practice as well as in documents -- if we consider that approximately nine million workers are employed in this sector -- as a major sector of fundamental importance . 
ENGLISH Well , the most recent decisions of the Commission -- and I refer to the Directorate - General for Industry -- have labelled this a negative priority -- they have now invented the concepts of positive and negative priorities -- and have abolished the 'social economy' operative unit . 
ENGLISH In my opinion , this is extremely serious and leaves us extremely sceptical as to whether the declarations made repeatedly in this House , which we have heard on several occasions , will be followed by practical action in the right direction . 
ENGLISH The NGO platform , with which Parliament and the Commission have maintained dialogue , and all those involved feel as if they have been taken for a ride , and I think that we parliamentarians also feel rather as if we have been deceived , when declarations are made saying one thing and then , in reality , practical decisions lead to another . 
ENGLISH The absence of an interlocutor on the administrative side apart from anything else will make it all the more difficult to resolve these problems rather than making it easier . 
ENGLISH So if we genuinely want to make positive progress , speed up the procedures and provide positive responses for the European citizens as well as the Non - Governmental Organisations , in my opinion , we need to rethink a whole series of decisions which have been taken and , most importantly , change them . 
ENGLISH Earlier today we discussed the annual report of the Committee on Petitions , that is the complaints end of the process of evaluating what is going on within the European Union . 
ENGLISH The NGOs in our view act as part of the preventive process . 
ENGLISH They provide a scrutiny mechanism , they provide a way of making sure that we do not lose aspects of the legislation that we are doing . 
ENGLISH They make us think of new things and they are essential to our process . 
ENGLISH It is really important that they are there to counterbalance a lot of the business interests which do not seem to have financial difficulties in finding a path to our door , whereas for a lot of NGOs working internationally is enormously expensive . 
ENGLISH The work we have been doing in various committees over the last few weeks on Article 13, the anti - discrimination article , would have been impossible without the input of those bodies . 
ENGLISH So the need to sort out a clear legal basis for their participation , and hence their funding , is absolutely essential , because this body cannot work properly without them . 
ENGLISH Reference was made to the applicant countries , and I would echo the words of my colleague , Mr Pronk , that the NGO and civil society movement in those countries is going to be essential if we are going to have a European Union based on values of justice and democracy . 
ENGLISH I would urge that we find a way of establishing a serious and reliable funding mechanism for those organisations that represent the poor , the excluded and the discriminated against at least , so that they are not scrabbling for funds every year , wondering if they are going to survive so they can do the job they exist to do . 
ENGLISH Mr President , in the last few years the EU has , of course , been given more and more significant powers in the social area , but it has not been given an awful lot of money for solving social problems . 
ENGLISH As long as the Member States are of the basic opinion that social issues should be dealt with by the Member States themselves , there will be no rapid change . 
ENGLISH It is difficult to meet new needs while the Member States have this attitude . 
ENGLISH For these reasons , I believe that it is particularly important for those of us who work in the EU institutions to concentrate on according much greater importance than we have until now to the non - governmental public organisations in Europe operating in the social sphere . 
ENGLISH I am sure everyone can see that there is a need for transnational activities in the social sphere , too . 
ENGLISH There is , therefore , a place for non - governmental organisations . 
ENGLISH It would , however , be unfortunate , and that is perhaps the way the Member States see it , if the non - governmental social organisations were to be strongly bound , financially and politically , to the EU -- more so than they are already becoming . 
ENGLISH Their worth lies precisely in the fact that they are non - governmental and civic and are able to see social problems from a different perspective than the authorities . In that way , they constitute a complement or alternative to the Commission , the Council and Parliament . 
ENGLISH I will take the opportunity to make a suggestion , despite there not being many people listening ( there are only around six MEPs in the House ) . 
ENGLISH I propose that the Commission turn to the Council and the Member States to try to get them to contribute to such a fund . 
ENGLISH This fund ought to be set up as an independent institution whose board of directors is made up of people from the social organisations themselves , together with researchers and experts in the social sphere . 
ENGLISH One might imagine that such an organisation would escape some of the bureaucratic problems . 
ENGLISH Financial supervision could be exercised by professional auditors . 
ENGLISH I believe that if we set to work on a task like this with a certain diplomatic tactfulness , the Member States would react positively to the proposal . 
ENGLISH I also believe that all other parties -- the socially disadvantaged , the non - governmental organisations , the Member States and the EU institutions -- would all be very pleased with such an institution . 
ENGLISH You told us that the Commission was active in meeting the operating costs of NGOs , but what we Members of Parliament want is to ensure that all NGOs , may be supported and funded on the basis of a number of practical projects . 
ENGLISH For , nowadays , it is the major NGOs which have the opportunity to respond to a number of invitations to tender : Médecins du monde , Médecins sans frontières , the Red Cross and so on and so forth . That is my first comment . 
ENGLISH You must be aware of the problems experienced by a good number of smaller NGOs in being able to respond to a number of invitations to tender . 
ENGLISH Secondly , what we would also like to see is the needs of NGOs being satisfied before a major tragedy occurs . 
ENGLISH Let me take just one example , the protection of childhood . 
ENGLISH Our attempts have been ignored . 
ENGLISH It was not until the Dutroux case that we were able to obtain a budget line enabling two programmes to be run : Daphne and STOP . 
ENGLISH Today , regrettably , only one programme is left , the Daphne programme . 
ENGLISH I can tell you that , as experts on matters to do with small children , a number of NGOs would indeed love to be able to respond to specific invitations to tender . 
ENGLISH Finally , I feel it advisable to simplify the procedures and that , in this connection -- I do not know if this has to be a fund - , the Commission should , at least initially , make a service available to NGOs , enabling them to obtain information on the work carried out by other parties and , possibly , establish networks on certain topics in order , ultimately , to be able to submit tenders to the Commission when offers come up . 
ENGLISH That , Commissioner , is what I wished to say . 
ENGLISH We need time for this . 
ENGLISH This is precisely why , given that social matters are essentially part of the remit of NGOs , we must make progress in the matter of civil dialogue . 
ENGLISH Mr President , Mrs Lambert and Mrs Ghilardotti are right . 
ENGLISH Since the 1998 budget crisis which saw the freezing of funds destined for NGO work with some of the most vulnerable people in Europe and the developing world , much progress has been made . 
ENGLISH The Portuguese presidency broke new ground and invited the European aid platform to the Lisbon informal social affairs summit and the French presidency is following suit . 
ENGLISH These kinds of initiatives were recognised in the conclusions of the Lisbon summit . 
ENGLISH There have been two years of consultations with NGOs and all the Commission has come up with is a discussion paper and two internal working groups which have hardly met . 
ENGLISH The troubles of NGOs Mr President are further compounded by this House when it makes difficult rules on co - finance requirements which are set with the tightest deadlines . 
ENGLISH The one budget line that we had -- B3 - 4101 has been scrapped and the Commission has failed to come up with a proposal for a legal base for the civil dialogue either through suggesting a Council regulation or a Treaty article . 
ENGLISH A number of valuable social NGOs are facing serious crises because of the inaction of the Commission and the Council . 
ENGLISH I saw one NGO which made an application for projects requiring eighty pages of budget sheets and so many supporting papers that one NGO application weighed over twelve kilos . 
ENGLISH Mr President , that has to change . 
ENGLISH NGOs are critical to our work and we must support them . 
ENGLISH I would like to give warm thanks to all the Members who took part in this debate for their suggestions , as well as for their very strong criticisms . 
ENGLISH I will pass them on and will raise them during the Commission' - s debate . 
ENGLISH Let me just reply briefly to two points . 
ENGLISH The first concerns the legal bases and the financing . 
ENGLISH Here we should not forget that one of the characteristics of a non - governmental organisation is that it should not be dependent on public funding . 
ENGLISH Otherwise it ought to be called a governmental rather than a non - governmental organisation . 
ENGLISH So I do not have very much sympathy for the oft - repeated call for governments or the Commission to assure the financing of non - governmental organisations in full . 
ENGLISH All they can ever do is provide support and cooperate on projects . 
ENGLISH That is quite fundamental . 
ENGLISH A number of speakers have addressed the question of non - governmental organisations and enlargement . 
ENGLISH I will answer them , because this matter is within my direct remit . 
ENGLISH All the ideas I have heard put forward in this debate have long since become reality . 
ENGLISH With our pre - accession aid , we are working very closely with the non - governmental organisations in the candidate countries ; moreover our communications strategy , the organisational and financial framework of which has now been established , is also very much targeted at non - governmental organisations in candidate countries , since the aim is precisely to fully involve civil society in this important political process . 
ENGLISH Thank you very much , ladies and gentlemen . 
ENGLISH ( The sitting was closed at 9.08 p.m ) . 
ITALIAN Approvazione del processo verbale della seduta precedente 
ITALIAN Il processo verbale della seduta di ieri è stato distribuito . 
ITALIAN Vi sono osservazioni ? 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , lunedì ho fatto un richiamo al Regolamento in merito alle dichiarazioni che , secondo la stampa britannica , la Presidente Fontaine avrebbe rilasciato dopo essersi incontrata con Sua Maestà la regina Elisabetta II . 
ITALIAN L ' onorevole Miller , un eurodeputato laburista britannico , ha ripetuto in questa sede le affermazioni attribuite alla regina e non una volta soltanto , ma in ben tre occasioni : lunedì , martedì e mercoledì . 
ITALIAN Egli ha cercato di trascinare la regina in una controversia politica , servendosi del nome di Sua Maestà per ottenere un meschino successo politico . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , forse la Presidente Fontaine non ha familiarità con le norme di protocollo che si applicano in queste circostanze in Gran Bretagna , ma l ' onorevole Miller non ha scusante alcuna . 
ITALIAN Egli sa perfettamente che la regina è un Capo di stato senza poteri politici ; egli sa perfettamente che per quasi cinquant ' anni lei ha evitato di farsi coinvolgere in questioni politiche controverse ; egli sa perfettamente che la regina non può venire in questo Parlamento per rettificare le affermazioni che le sono state attribuite . 
ITALIAN Il comportamento dell ' onorevole Miller costituisce è scandaloso . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , sono orgoglioso della mia nazionalità britannica , ma oggi mi vergogno di condividerla con quest ' uomo , che sembra ignorare ogni sentimento di pudore e di rispetto . 
ITALIAN L ' onorevole Miller è dunque totalmente privo di onore e dignità ? 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , come posso replicare a un attacco di tal fatta ? 
ITALIAN Quando ho sollevato la questione lunedì , martedì e mercoledì ho chiesto all ' onorevole Helmer di esprimere un parere sull ' euro , ma finora egli si è ben guardato dal raccogliere il mio invito . 
ITALIAN Vorrei inoltre rilevare che , nel colloquio con Sua Maestà la regina , la Presidente Fontaine ha posto alcune domande cui la regina ha risposto a nome del proprio governo , che è un governo laburista . 
ITALIAN Questo forse non piacerà all ' onorevole Helmer , ma mi duole dovergli ricordare che le cose stanno proprio così . 
ITALIAN Come tutti sanno , signor Presidente , la scorsa domenica si sono tenute le elezioni in Messico . 
ITALIAN La delegazione da me presieduta , nell ' ambito della riunione tenuta oggi , ha avuto l ' opportunità di discutere la relazione dei nostri colleghi che hanno assistito a tali elezioni come osservatori in rappresentanza del Parlamento . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , chiedo che la nostra risoluzione , di cui riceverà oggi il testo completo , sia inviata alle autorità messicane dalla Presidente del Parlamento . 
ITALIAN Molto bene , onorevole Seguro . 
ITALIAN Ne informerò senz ' altro la Presidente Fontaine . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , onorevoli colleghi , intervengo per segnalare un errore nel processo verbale che è stato all ' origine di notevole malumore . 
ITALIAN Del processo verbale fanno parte anche i testi approvati . 
ITALIAN Ieri avevo fatto presente che la traduzione inglese dell ' articolo 6, paragrafo 3 della direttiva sulla lotta contro il riciclaggio di danaro , su cui abbiamo votato , doveva essere corretta in conformità dell ' emendamento n . 26, poiché la versione inglese è sbagliata . 
ITALIAN Si tratta , peraltro , di un punto di importanza decisiva per la direttiva e , poiché il gruppo di lavoro del Consiglio utilizza come testo base la versione inglese , è assolutamente necessario apportarvi le dovute correzioni . 
ITALIAN Avevo già segnalato il problema ai servizi linguistici durante la seduta della commissione , ma in quell ' occasione si è deciso di non presentare un emendamento in sede di commissione perché il testo originale è quello tedesco , essendo il tedesco la lingua del relatore . 
ITALIAN Ieri ho nuovamente segnalato il problema , dato che non era stato ancora risolto , e ora lo risegnalo per la terza volta ! 
ITALIAN Ritengo che i servizi del Parlamento dovrebbero prestare maggiore attenzione e cura a simili aspetti , che rivestono importanza fondamentale . E ' inaccettabile che , nonostante le mie rimostranze di ieri , il processo verbale contenga tuttora l ' errore da me evidenziato ! 
ITALIAN La invito ad andare a fondo della questione e a far correggere la versione inglese in questo punto decisivo , di grande rilevanza per la direttiva ! 
ITALIAN Certamente , onorevole Lehne . 
ITALIAN Lei lo ha già chiarito molto bene ieri ; provvederemo senz ' altro a far apportare la necessaria correzione . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , ieri abbiamo ricevuto da parte del Vicepresidente aderente al gruppo Verts / ALE una lettera di colore giallo alla quale erano attaccate delle noci . 
ITALIAN Nella missiva si afferma che occorre sostenere l ' esportazione dei prodotti di Vanuatu , un paese del Pacifico in via di sviluppo . 
ITALIAN Trovo che tale richiesta sia senz ' altro valida e seria e penso che la potrò sostenere con piacere . 
ITALIAN Mi permetto d ' invitare il Vicepresidente in questione a chiarire come sia avvenuta l ' importazione illegale delle noci da Vanuatu , visto che ce le ha date ! 
ITALIAN Mi pare di vedere una contraddizione in questa vicenda e vorrei che egli ce la spiegasse . 
ITALIAN ( Ilarità e applausi ) 
ITALIAN ( Il Parlamento approva il processo verbale ) 
ITALIAN Benvenuto 
ITALIAN Onorevoli colleghi , ho il grande piacere di porgere oggi il benvenuto alla delegazione dell ' Assemblea federale svizzera , guidata dal suo presidente , l ' onorevole Marcel Sandoz , presente in tribuna d ' onore . 
ITALIAN Gli incontri sono iniziati ieri e proseguiranno nella giornata di oggi . 
ITALIAN Fra i temi all ' ordine del giorno vi sono gli accordi bilaterali Unione europea - Svizzera , gli sviluppi futuri della politica d ' integrazione svizzera , le prospettive della Conferenza intergovernativa dell ' Unione europea e il processo di ampliamento dell ' Unione europea stessa . 
ITALIAN A nome di tutta la nostra Assemblea , auguro alla delegazione una proficua partecipazione alle riunioni e un piacevole soggiorno in questa stupenda città di Strasburgo . 
ITALIAN Commissione per le petizioni -- Mediatore europeo 
ITALIAN L ' ordine del giorno reca , in discussione congiunta , presentate a nome della commissione per le petizioni , le seguenti relazioni : 
ITALIAN ( A5 - 0162 / 2000 ) , dell ' onorevole Lambert , sulle delibere della commissione per le petizioni nell ' arco dell ' anno parlamentare 1999 - 2000 ; 
ITALIAN ( A5 - 0181 / 2000 ) , dell ' onorevole Thors , sulla relazione annuale di attività del Mediatore europeo per l ' anno 1999 . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , sono lieto che mi si offra l ' occasione di informare il Parlamento europeo sui risultati del mio lavoro in qualità di Mediatore europeo per il 1999 . 
ITALIAN Il numero delle indagini avviate è passato dalle 171 del 1998 alle 206 del 1999, registrando un aumento superiore al 20 percento . 
ITALIAN La notorietà del Mediatore europeo sta crescendo . Inoltre il nostro ufficio riceve una maggior quantità di denunce gravi che richiedono indagini approfondite . 
ITALIAN Vi interesserà sapere che abbiamo osservato questa tendenza anche nell ' anno in corso : nei primi sei mesi del 2000, il numero delle nuove indagini è salito del 32 percento rispetto allo stesso periodo del 1999 . 
ITALIAN Spero che il Parlamento europeo aiuti il Mediatore ad ottenere le risorse necessarie per svolgere efficacemente la propria opera . 
ITALIAN Più del 70 percento delle denunce da noi ricevute nel 1999 esulava dal mandato del Mediatore europeo ; tale percentuale ha registrato addirittura un leggero aumento , probabilmente a causa del sempre maggiore numero di denunce che ci giungono per posta elettronica . 
ITALIAN Siamo più che disposti ad accettare denunce per posta elettronica , molte delle quali riguardan. o riguardavan. casi concreti o presunti di cattiva amministrazione . 
ITALIAN Nel complesso , gran parte delle denunce inviate per posta elettronica è diretta contro le autorità degli Stati membri . 
ITALIAN L ' anno scorso , allorché si era in procinto di eleggere il Mediatore europeo , alcune voci critiche suggerirono di ampliare il suo mandato così da includere le denunce contro gli Stati membri che riguardassero casi relativi alla normativa dell ' Unione europea . 
ITALIAN Mi chiedo se costoro avessero ben compreso che ciò significherebbe accollare al Mediatore europeo compiti attualmente di competenza della Commissione europea nella sua veste di custode del Trattato e del Parlamento europeo nella sua veste di istanza democratica alla quale i cittadini possono indirizzare petizioni . 
ITALIAN Noi esaminiamo attentamente tutte le denunce che ci pervengono , soprattutto se riguardano diritti sanciti dalla normativa comunitaria . 
ITALIAN Nel 1999 siamo riusciti ad assistere il ricorrente o a trasmettere la denuncia all ' autorità competente all ' incirca nella metà dei casi ; di questi , 71 sono stati inviati al Parlamento europeo perché li esaminasse come petizioni ; inoltre abbiamo informato altri 142 ricorrenti del diritto di presentare una petizione al Parlamento europeo . 
ITALIAN In molti casi , delle denunce sporte contro enti od organismi nazionali , regionali o locali si sarebbe potuto occupare efficacemente un Mediatore nazionale . 
ITALIAN In ogni Stato membro dovrebbe esistere un ' autorità non giudiziaria in grado di assistere i cittadini europei nelle controversie con l ' amministrazione degli Stati membri relativamente ai diritti previsti dalla normativa comunitaria . 
ITALIAN Quale sostenitore della sussidiarietà , sono convinto che la maniera più efficace di raggiungere questo risultato sia lo sviluppo di una rete di cooperazione con questi Mediatori e organismi analoghi come le commissioni per le petizioni . 
ITALIAN L ' onorevole Perry , primo vicepresidente della commissione per le petizioni , ha rappresentato il Parlamento europeo nel corso del convegno svoltosi settembre 1999 a Parigi . 
ITALIAN Un altro seminario è previsto a Bruxelles per il 2001, quando il Belgio assumerà la Presidenza del Consiglio , in collaborazione con la Commissione e con i Mediatori belgi a livello regionale e federale . 
ITALIAN L ' anno scorso i Mediatori regionali e gli organismi analoghi sono stati invitati a Firenze per una riunione cui era presente anche l ' onorevole Gemelli , presidente della commissione per le petizioni ; i Mediatori regionali e gli organismi analoghi saranno anche invitati a Bruxelles l ' anno prossimo . 
ITALIAN I Mediatori e gli organismi analoghi degli Stati membri hanno dimostrato un ' ampia disponibilità a collaborare con il Mediatore europeo e sono fermamente convinto che , cooperando con loro su basi paritarie , sarà possibile ottenere risultati soddisfacenti per i cittadini europei . 
ITALIAN Inizialmente si temeva che il Mediatore europeo non disponesse dei poteri sufficienti per aiutare in maniera concreta i cittadini . 
ITALIAN Questi timori si sono rivelati infondati , poiché le Istituzioni e le autorità comunitarie hanno collaborato con il Mediatore . 
ITALIAN Dall ' inizio della loro attività , esse sono riuscite a ricomporre più di 180 controversie con piena soddisfazione del ricorrente . 
ITALIAN Tutto ciò è indice di una tempestività e di una flessibilità superiori a quelle da me sperimentate nei miei contatti con le amministrazioni nazionali . 
ITALIAN Sessantadue di queste composizioni hanno avuto luogo lo scorso anno , riducendo il margine d ' applicazione delle soluzioni amichevoli proposte dal Mediatore . 
ITALIAN Abbiamo comunque ottenuto una soluzione amichevole nel 1999, per un caso in cui Commissione e Consiglio hanno concordato che il ricorrente aveva diritto a ricevere l ' importo dovutogli per il suo lavoro di coordinatore regionale dell ' Unione europea addetto al monitoraggio delle elezioni palestinesi . 
ITALIAN Qualora l ' Istituzione o l ' autorità interessata non risolvano direttamente i casi di cattiva amministrazione , l ' unica alternativa che rimane al Mediatore è quella di presentare una raccomandazione seguita , se necessario , da una relazione speciale al Parlamento europeo . 
ITALIAN Cinque anni fa , molti sostenevano che le Istituzioni e le autorità comunitarie non prestavano la dovuta attenzione al Parlamento europeo . 
ITALIAN Forse allora era così , ma la situazione è decisamente mutata a partire dal Trattato di Amsterdam e dopo la caduta della Commissione Santer . 
ITALIAN Nel 1999 abbiamo presentato dieci proposte di raccomandazioni . 
ITALIAN In sette casi , l ' Istituzione interessata ha accettato le proposte in questione . 
ITALIAN In due casi , il Mediatore ha inoltrato una relazione speciale al Parlamento europeo . 
ITALIAN Un caso è ancora pendente , dal momento che EUROPOL ha bisogno di più tempo per garantire un maggior accesso del pubblico ai documenti , come previsto dalla posposta di raccomandazione . 
ITALIAN Stiamo ottenendo dei risultati per i cittadini europei e questo è ciò che importa . 
ITALIAN In particolare , mi rivolgo alla Commissione e al Commissario responsabile , signora De Palacio , ringraziandola per aver continuato l ' opera del suo predecessore a favore di una cooperazione onesta e costruttiva con il Mediatore . 
ITALIAN Desidero altresì esprimere il mio più sincero apprezzamento per la disponibilità e la collaborazione offerte all ' Ufficio del Mediatore dalla commissione per le petizioni e soprattutto dal suo vicepresidente , onorevole Gemelli . Infine vorrei ringraziare la relatrice della commissione per le petizioni , onorevole Thors , per la sua eccellente ed esaustiva relazione . 
ITALIAN Vi ringrazio per l ' attenzione . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , la relazione che presento questa mattina si compone di due parti : l ' una riflette il lavoro svolto dalla commissione stessa , l ' altra l ' opera della onorevole Banotti , Mediatore del Parlamento per i rapimenti transnazionali di minori . 
ITALIAN Desidero quindi esprimere il mio personale apprezzamento per il lavoro del Mediatore europeo Söderman . 
ITALIAN Vorrei anche ringraziare la segreteria della commissione , soprattutto per la ripartizione statistica che è stata effettuata e che , devo confessarlo , non è opera mia . 
ITALIAN Esorto i deputati che non hanno dimestichezza con la commissione per le petizioni a leggere queste relazioni che potrebbero dimostrarsi utili per la loro opera a favore di coloro che rappresentano . 
ITALIAN Vorrei anche attirare l ' attenzione dei deputati sul sito che viene citato dalla relazione e che è stato istituito nell ' ambito dell ' Iniziativa Europa in diretta ; esso potrebbe fornire informazioni utili e forse evitare la necessità di una petizione o , al contrario , confermarne l ' opportunità come utile strumento . 
ITALIAN Cresce la necessità di questo tipo di informazioni , poiché l ' opinione pubblica acquista sempre maggiore consapevolezza dell ' importanza e del significato delle iniziative prese a livello di Unione europea . 
ITALIAN L ' obiettivo della commissione per le petizioni è di fornire un servizio valido ed efficiente ai singoli cittadini dell ' Unione europea e alla società civile in generale . 
ITALIAN Qualunque individuo , cittadino , residente o gruppo può rivolgere petizioni al Parlamento ogniqualvolta ritenga che il diritto o i principi della Comunità non vengano applicati adeguatamente a qualsiasi livello . 
ITALIAN L ' anno scorso abbiamo ricevuto 958 petizioni , 492 delle quali sono state giudicate ricevibili . 
ITALIAN Ne ricorderò soltanto due , per dimostrare l ' ampia gamma di argomenti e la potenziale efficacia del meccanismo . 
ITALIAN Una cittadina britannica è riuscita ad ottenere il riconoscimento della sua precedente esperienza didattica da parte delle autorità francesi , il che probabilmente influirà sul suo salario e sulle sue possibilità di carriera . 
ITALIAN In un altro caso , una petizione presentata da un cittadino spagnolo , che agiva a nome di un ' associazione ambientalista , ha dato avvio a una procedura di violazione contro le autorità spagnole in relazione alla direttiva sugli habitat , causa frequente di denunce ( la direttiva , non le autorità ) , e ha prodotto effetti durevoli a livello nazionale . 
ITALIAN Casi di questo tipo forniscono un feedback importante al Parlamento europeo e alle altre Istituzioni sulle modalità operative della nostra legislazione a favore ( o a detrimento , secondo i casi ) degli individui e della società . 
ITALIAN Non avremmo potuto svolgere il nostro lavoro in seno alla commissione in maniera efficace senza il sostegno dei numerosi funzionari della Commissione che conducono le indagini e , se necessario , promuovono procedure ; quindi vorrei porgere loro i nostri più sentiti ringraziamenti . 
ITALIAN Sappiamo che potremmo fornire un servizio più rapido ed efficace se gli Stati membri rispondessero con altrettanto impegno alle richieste di informazioni e spiegazioni . 
ITALIAN Se un rappresentante del Consiglio fosse presente in questo momento , vorrei attirare la sua attenzione sui punti 8 e 10 della relazione . 
ITALIAN La nostra commissione intende migliorare la qualità complessiva dei nostri meccanismi di feedback ; nella relazione troverete alcune delle nostre idee , altre compariranno in un ' altra relazione che sarà presentata dagli onorevoli Perry e Keßler nel mese di settembre . 
ITALIAN Proponiamo , come già abbiamo fatto l ' anno scorso , di realizzare una banca dati così che gli autori delle petizioni e i deputati possano seguirne il corso ed individuare gli eventuali problemi . 
ITALIAN Confidiamo che le autorità competenti ne tengano conto quest ' anno e accolgano questa proposta . 
ITALIAN Ci sono vari punti che riguardano i nostri rapporti con le altre commissioni ; chiediamo loro di contattare più spesso la commissione per le petizioni per esprimere un ' opinione su alcuni settori di particolare interesse . 
ITALIAN Vorremmo essere coinvolti nella preparazione di relazioni comuni su temi rilevanti quali l ' ambiente , la previdenza sociale , la tutela dei consumatori , eccetera . 
ITALIAN Vorremmo anche sfruttare l ' esperienza acquisita dai membri della nostra commissione attraverso il loro lavoro in altre commissioni del Parlamento per realizzare un sistema basato sulla centralità del relatore per temi specifici . 
ITALIAN Desideriamo inoltre instaurare rapporti con le commissioni per le petizioni di altri Stati membri , per favorire lo scambio di idee e la comprensione reciproca . 
ITALIAN Dobbiamo apprezzare questo meccanismo e sfruttare l ' esperienza di coloro che rappresentiam. esperienza che emerge dalle loro petizion. per migliorare globalmente il nostro lavoro . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , signora Commissario , signor Mediatore , la valutazione data dal relatore e dalla commissione alla relazione del Mediatore europeo per il 199. anno contraddistinto dalla crisi in seno alle Istituzioni dell ' Unione e da una sfiducia generalizzata verso l ' amministrazione comunitari. è la seguente : i cittadini legittimeranno l ' integrazione europea soltanto se si vedranno riconosciuti diritti tali da consentire loro di partecipare a un dialogo politico con le Istituzioni . 
ITALIAN Che cosa ha tutto ciò a che vedere con la missione del Mediatore ? 
ITALIAN Secondo il relatore , tale missione consiste nell ' indagare sui casi di cattiva amministrazione presso le Istituzioni e all ' interno degli organismi comunitari . 
ITALIAN Su esortazione del Parlamento europeo , nella relazione per il 1997 il Mediatore aveva fornito una definizione di " cattiva amministrazione " . 
ITALIAN Si può parlare di cattiva amministrazione quando un ente pubblico omette di agire in ottemperanza a norme o principi vincolanti per tale ente pubblico . 
ITALIAN Nel precedente mandato del Mediatore , le Istituzioni hanno concordato l ' applicazione di tale definizione che rappresenta quindi , per il momento e per il futuro , il punto di partenza dell ' attività del Mediatore . 
ITALIAN Nella relazione la commissione sottolinea che questa definizione comunemente accettata di " cattiva amministrazione " contempla anche il diritto di esaminare in che modo le Istituzioni interpretino il diritto comunitario . 
ITALIAN A prescindere dalla forma giuridica definitiva della Carta dei diritti fondamentali , essa rappresenterà comunque un ' espressione delle comuni tradizioni costituzionali degli Stati membri che l ' Unione è tenuta a rispettare in base all ' articolo 6 del Trattato , essendovi perciò tenuti anche gli organismi e le Istituzioni comunitarie . 
ITALIAN La commissione rileva inoltre che il Mediatore ha un importante ruolo da svolgere per quanto concerne l ' applicazione della futura Carta dei diritti dei cittadini . 
ITALIAN " Buona amministrazione " intesa come contrario di " cattiva amministrazione " . 
ITALIAN Il diritto a una buona amministrazione , sia per quanto concerne la Carta di diritti dei cittadini che per quanto concerne il codice di buona condotta chiesti dal Parlamento e dal Mediatore , deve contemplare come minimo : il diritto di essere ascoltati in relazione al proprio caso , il diritto di accesso agli atti , il diritto a una risposta celere da parte dell ' amministrazione , il diritto a una risposta motivata . 
ITALIAN Tutti questi aspetti hanno rivestito un ruolo fondamentale nel lavoro svolto dal Mediatore . 
ITALIAN Questi diritti rappresentano il presupposto di quella cittadinanza attiva di cui l ' Unione ha bisogno per poter riguadagnare la fiducia dei cittadini . 
ITALIAN Sono questi diritti a far sì che la cittadinanza non sia passiva , ma attiva . 
ITALIAN Una buona amministrazione può gettare le basi per una cittadinanza attiva , mentre una cattiva amministrazione può minarle . 
ITALIAN Quali sono le categorie più comuni di denunce presentate al Mediatore ? 
ITALIAN Diniego di informazioni o informazioni incomplete , ritardi che si sarebbero potuti evitare , discriminazioni , negazione del diritto alla difesa . 
ITALIAN I cittadini chiedono un ' amministrazione adeguata , e chiedono di essere cittadini attivi . 
ITALIAN Queste sono le conseguenze che si traggono esaminando l ' oggetto delle sempre crescenti denunce al Mediatore europeo . 
ITALIAN A tale proposito , è d ' uopo tributargli un grande elogio . 
ITALIAN Diversi anni fa , un ' indagine avviata di propria iniziativa ha fatto sì che oggi la maggior parte delle Istituzioni e degli organismi comunitari sia dotata di norme concernenti l ' accesso del pubblico agli atti . 
ITALIAN Il Mediatore ha proseguito instancabilmente il suo lavoro per assicurare una vera trasparenza e per evitare che la riservatezza dei dati e la tutela della privacy possano essere sfruttate per negare al pubblico la trasparenza . 
ITALIAN E ' inoltre importante la cooperazione instaurata con i Mediatori nazionali e , in seguito , anche con i corrispondenti organismi dei paesi candidati . 
ITALIAN Si tratta di un lavoro valido , che il Parlamento deve sostenere . 
ITALIAN Ciò dovrebbe accadere mettendo a disposizione del Mediatore risorse sufficienti , cosicché egli possa svolgere le impegnative indagini imposte dal suo mandato . 
ITALIAN Anche in futuro , quindi , dovremo appoggiare un Mediatore indipendente nelle sue decisioni . 
ITALIAN Rivolgo un sentito ringraziamento al Mediatore e al suo staff , nonché alla segreteria della commissione per le petizioni , che , come sappiamo , lavora in condizioni difficili . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , la commissione per le petizioni del Parlamento europeo è un organo particolare . 
ITALIAN Infatti , come hanno giustamente sottolineato le due oratrici che mi hanno preceduto , essa vaglia le denunce presentate da cittadini che vedono lesi i propri diritti sanciti dalla cittadinanza dell ' Unione . 
ITALIAN In qualità di relatore di un parere sul diritto di soggiorno , vorrei fare alcune osservazioni sui particolari problemi che esistono in questo campo . 
ITALIAN Con la firma del Trattato di Maastricht è stato introdotto un diritto generale di soggiorno di cui si può godere a condizione di possedere sufficienti mezzi di sostentamento e di disporre di un ' adeguata tutela assicurativa sulle malattie . 
ITALIAN La libertà di circolazione e il diritto di soggiorno possono essere limitati soltanto in presenza di motivi di ordine pubblico , di sicurezza e di salute . 
ITALIAN L ' esperienza della commissione per le petizioni dimostra che , nella pratica , l ' esercizio del diritto alla libera circolazione si scontra con numerose difficoltà a causa di tre ordini di fattori : primo , la lentezza con cui le disposizioni del diritto comunitario vengono attuate da parte degli uffici responsabili negli Stati membri ; secondo , i problemi relativi all ' esercizio della professione legati al riconoscimento di diplomi e titoli di studio ; terzo , la mancata applicazione delle disposizioni in materia di previdenza sociale a causa , ad esempio , della complessità dei moduli da riempire per poter ottenere il rimborso delle spese mediche sostenute . 
ITALIAN Un ' analisi delle procedure avviate per infrazione dei Trattati nel periodo 1996 - 1999 rivela che in 97 casi si è riscontrato un nesso diretto tra la petizione presentata e la procedura di infrazione aperta dalla Corte di giustizia europea . 
ITALIAN Purtroppo , il Consiglio dei ministri ignora spesso le comunicazioni inviategli dalla commissione per le petizioni sulle gravi violazioni commesse dalle autorità degli Stati membri contro il diritto comunitario , un fatto che testimonia dell ' atteggiamento negativo verso il diritto di petizione di cui godono i cittadini europei . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , il diritto di presentare petizioni e denunce non è un ' invenzione dei tempi moderni . 
ITALIAN Già duemila anni fa i postulanti potevano esporre i propri problemi agli imperatori romani . 
ITALIAN Questo diritto , però , ha sempre corso il rischio di essere modificato , limitato o abolito . 
ITALIAN Nessuna amministrazione e nessuna istituzione sono infallibili . 
ITALIAN Molte petizioni denunciano incongruenze tra le disposizioni di legge e l ' integrazione europea . 
ITALIAN Le petizioni sono quindi una cartina al tornasole dei rapporti tra il cittadino e il legislatore . 
ITALIAN Esse affrontano un ' ampia gamma di problematiche , che vanno dalla colonia di criceti in un ' area industriale al divieto di utilizzare protesi al silicone fino all ' introduzione di una tassa sugli automezzi pesanti . 
ITALIAN Per quanto concerne il Mediatore europeo , il mio gruppo si congratula con lui per il lavoro svolto nel 1999 . 
ITALIAN Il merito del Mediatore Söderman è stato ed è quello di impegnarsi soprattutto per assicurare una maggiore trasparenza ed apertura nelle amministrazioni europee . 
ITALIAN Poiché la maggior parte delle denunce di competenza del Mediatore riguardano la Commissione europea e sono motivate dall ' assenza di trasparenza , è necessario adoperarsi per migliorare questa situazione . 
ITALIAN A tal fine occorre garantire l ' accesso ai documenti non solo ai cittadini europei , ma anche al Mediatore . 
ITALIAN Dare ai cittadini risposte concrete e motivate significa creare un clima di fiducia ; un comportamento di segno contrario , invece , non solo ingenera sfiducia , ma fa anche aumentare il numero di denunce da esaminare , il che comporta nuovi oneri . 
ITALIAN Particolarmente lodevole è l ' iniziativa del Mediatore a favore di un codice di buona condotta amministrativa . 
ITALIAN Attribuisco grande importanza al ruolo indipendente svolto dal Mediatore europeo , che può fungere da esempio per l ' istituzione della figura del Mediatore nazionale nei paesi candidati e nel mio Land , la Turingia . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , signor Mediatore , i liberal. ed io in prima person. sono orgogliosi del coraggio , dell ' attivismo e della determinazione del Mediatore . 
ITALIAN E ' essenziale che esista una persona di tanta integrità , che ha avuto il coraggio di battersi per la trasparenza e l ' apertura contro la cultura dell ' insabbiamento , del segreto e in alcuni casi , purtroppo , persino della frode e della corruzione esistenti anche in seno alle Istituzioni europee . 
ITALIAN Soltanto un ' amministrazione trasparente e aperta può guadagnarsi il sostegno dei politici che lavorano qui e dei cittadini che rappresentano . 
ITALIAN La linea portata avanti dal Mediatore gode di vasto consenso fra i cittadini di tutti gli Stati membri . 
ITALIAN E ' un dato di fatto incontrovertibile , come dimostrato in più relazioni scientifiche internazionali , l ' incontestabile legame esistente fra elevato grado di trasparenza e pubblicità nell ' amministrazione , da un lato , e basso livello di corruzione , dall ' altro . 
ITALIAN Anche il contrario è vero , ossia che un ' amministrazione chiusa e piena di segreti tende a registrare un grado di corruzione più elevato . 
ITALIAN Ciò vale anche per le Istituzioni europee . 
ITALIAN Ecco perché è tanto importante disporre di un Mediatore indipendente e in grado di agire in modo autonomo , senza alcun tipo di pressioni o di interessi che tentino di influenzarne l ' operato . 
ITALIAN Anche la crescente quota di denunce provenienti dai cittadini dimostra la necessità di disporre di un Mediatore che agisca nell ' interesse dei cittadini . 
ITALIAN L ' unica critica che è possibile rivolgere al Mediatore consiste nel fatto che questa istituzione è purtroppo ancora poco conosciuta in troppi Stati membri e che sono pochi i cittadini al corrente di questo diritto . 
ITALIAN Ecco un aspetto sul quale , in futuro , ritengo che ci dovremo concentrare . 
ITALIAN Mi congratulo con lui per il lavoro svolto nel corso dell ' anno e gli auguro buona fortuna per il futuro . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , signora Commissario , signor Mediatore , è forse bene ricordare che soltanto un anno e mezzo fa in questa sede si è discusso sulla necessità o meno della commissione per le petizioni . 
ITALIAN Sono molto contenta di poter constatare che la commissione per le petizioni ha nuovamente dimostrato di essere indispensabile , specie se vogliamo rafforzare la posizione del cittadino nell ' Unione europea . 
ITALIAN Per quanto concerne il Mediatore , questi ha rinsaldato la propria posizione e riconfermato la propria indipendenza ; il crescente numero di denunce è la dimostrazione del fatto che i cittadini ne hanno scoperto l ' esistenza ; noi parlamentari abbiamo spesso potuto indirizzare a lui i cittadini per ottenere una risoluzione ai loro problemi . 
ITALIAN In futuro ci occuperemo della questione legata alla pubblicità dei documenti , sulla quale abbiamo ottenuto valide informazioni dal Mediatore . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , in un minuto si può dire molto poco , per cui sarà sintetica . 
ITALIAN In primo luogo , vorrei esprimere la mia gratitudine alla relatrice Lambert per aver accolto nel corso del dibattito tutte le nostre proposte . 
ITALIAN Proprio per questo non sono stati neppure presentati emendamenti . 
ITALIAN In secondo luogo , vorrei dire che , a questo punto , nessuno nutre dubbi sul fatto che la commissione per le petizioni e il Mediatore europeo contribuiscano in maniera assai importante a far rispettare il diritto comunitario . 
ITALIAN Lo stiamo vedendo tutti i giorni in seno alla commissione per le petizioni . 
ITALIAN Pertanto , anch ' io come la onorevole Hautala , sono estremamente lieta che la commissione per le petizioni sia sopravvissuta ai tentativi di farla scomparire , dato che , oltre a chiedere il rispetto del diritto comunitario , essa è la commissione più vicina ai cittadini . 
ITALIAN E ' la commissione che rende le Istituzioni più visibili ai cittadini . 
ITALIAN Probabilmente , il problema più rilevante è quello delle lunghe procedure che seguono la denuncia presentata da un cittadino . 
ITALIAN Un cittadino deve studiare il diritto comunitario per poter presentare una petizione per poi vedere , mese dopo mese , come la risposta tardi ad arrivare . 
ITALIAN Le petizioni più importanti riguardano argomenti sociali e relativi all ' ambiente , che sono i temi che più ci preoccupano . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , in alcune occasion. e qui concludo - , quando si denuncia l ' espulsione di un cittadino oppure la distruzione di una zona naturale , la risposta arriva a fatto compiuto , quando non c ' è più nulla da fare . 
ITALIAN Lo snellimento delle procedure è pertanto una questione importante che la onorevole Lambert ha saputo evidenziare . 
ITALIAN Ma al Mediatore vorremmo rivolgere una domanda precisa e puntuale in merito al fatto che ancora non esiste la possibilità di presentare denunce utilizzando la firma elettronica . 
ITALIAN E ' un problema , questo , che secondo noi riguarda tutte le Istituzioni , anche per quello che concerne il lavoro all ' interno del Parlamento , ma in particolare , proprio perchè il Mediatore è impegnato e interessato acché ci sia la massima attenzione verso il proprio lavoro , pensiamo che la firma elettronica , per quanto concerne il Mediatore , può essere il primo atto per introdurre l ' uso di questo strumento all ' interno delle Istituzioni . 
ITALIAN Il 77 percento delle denunce ricevibili concernono la Commissione . 
ITALIAN In particolare , il Presidente Prodi , il 7 dicembre 1999, si era impegnato a trovare e a proporre delle soluzioni giuridiche e organizzative per dare ai candidati ai concorsi , interni ed esterni , della Commissione la possibilità di accedere ai propri elaborati d ' esame . 
ITALIAN Vorremmo sapere dal Mediatore , così come ci ha ricordato che EUROPOL ha ancora bisogno di tempo , se l ' impegno preso il 7 dicembre dal Presidente Prodi di concedere l ' accesso agli elaborati per il 1 º luglio 2000, è di già operativo . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , onorevoli colleghi , dalla relazione annuale del Mediatore europeo apprendo che il motivo principale per cui i cittadini presentano denunc. come abbiamo testé udit. è la mancanza di trasparenza . 
ITALIAN A quanto pare , non tutte le parti interessate sono consapevoli dell ' esistenza di questo problema . 
ITALIAN La Commissione ha presentato una proposta di regolamento sull ' accesso pubblico ai documenti che lei , Mediatore Söderman , ha giustamente e pubblicamente criticato in quanto non abbastanza ampia . 
ITALIAN Abbiamo potuto leggere qualcosa al riguardo . 
ITALIAN Da quale spirito sia mossa questa proposta si può evincere leggendo quanto affermato dal Comitato di esperti indipendenti . 
ITALIAN Nella seconda relazione è riportato che , cito , " ... la Commissione , come tutte le istituzioni politiche , necessita di spazi per riflettere , al fine di definire la sua politica prima che essa diventi di dominio pubblico , giacché una politica fatta davanti all ' opinione pubblica è spesso una cattiva politica " . 
ITALIAN Pertanto , Mediatore Söderman , appoggio vivamente le sue critiche del tutto giustificate ! 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , vorrei porgere anch ' io le mie congratulazioni e i miei ringraziamenti al Mediatore per la relazione che ha presentato quest ' anno , nonché alle onorevoli Thors e Lambert per le relazioni che hanno sottoposto al Parlamento . 
ITALIAN Tutte e tre le relazion. soprattutto quella del Mediator. sono la prova del lavoro serio e attendibile che è stato svolto nel corso dell ' anno . 
ITALIAN Certamente i cittadini europei hanno bisogno di qualcuno a cui rivolgersi se hanno problemi con l ' amministrazione ; so che il signor Söderman è un Mediatore affidabile . 
ITALIAN Ne ho avuto la prova quando ho partecipato al seminario di Parigi ; è stato un piacere constatare il rispetto di cui gode il Mediatore europeo presso i suoi omologhi nazionali . 
ITALIAN Da questo lato dell ' Emiciclo siamo convinti che il Mediatore debba avere tutti i poteri di cui ha bisogno per adempiere le proprie responsabilità . 
ITALIAN Per quanto riguarda l ' accesso ai documenti , riteniamo che le opinioni della commissione per gli affari costituzionali siano indubbiamente importanti , ma ciò non significa che nutriamo dubbi sul diritto del Mediatore di accedere ai documenti ; su questo punto , egli può contare sul nostro appoggio incondizionato . 
ITALIAN E ' sorprendente pensare che soltanto lo scorso anno la commissione per le petizioni si trovava in una situazione alquanto precaria ; la relazione della onorevole Lambert illustra l ' eccellente opera svolta dalla commissione per le petizioni . 
ITALIAN Insieme al nostro presidente , onorevole Gemelli , stiamo cercando di rendere la nostra commissione più efficace e più efficiente nel lavoro che svolge a nome dei cittadini . 
ITALIAN Una delle cose più importanti che presenteremo al Parlamento è un codice di buona condotta amministrativa . 
ITALIAN I cittadini e i funzionari delle Istituzioni sanno che cosa sia una condotta ragionevole e quindi dispongono di standard a cui fare riferimento . 
ITALIAN Infine vorrei ringraziare la Commissione per il sostegno offerto alla nostra commissione , un sostegno valido e costante per tutto l ' anno . 
ITALIAN Spero che anche durante la Presidenza francese otterremo lo stesso appoggio da parte del Consiglio , appoggio che sfortunatamente ci è venuto a mancare in passato . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , anzitutto mi complimento con le due relatrici per le interessanti osservazioni formulate . 
ITALIAN Abbracciando sfere d ' attività sempre nuove , che ormai comprendono un ampio spettro di interessi dei cittadini , l ' Unione europea si trasforma in un moderno Leviatano , con gli inevitabili abusi che accompagnano qualsiasi strumento amministrativo e che in certo qual modo tendono a essere più pericolosi di quelli a livello di servizi nazionali . 
ITALIAN La ragione di ciò è che i meccanismi di controllo non hanno seguito l ' evolversi dell ' attività . 
ITALIAN Il primo è rappresentato dal più diretto e frequente coinvolgimento del Parlamento nel controllo delle singole attività degli organismi comunitari ; a tale proposito si deve dare seguito alle proposte della relatrice , onorevole Thors , secondo cui la Commissione dovrebbe includere nella relazione annuale sul diritto comunitario una sezione in cui si esaminino le petizioni e le denunce , nonché elaborare un accordo interistituzionale che porti ad un trattamento più rapido delle denunce . 
ITALIAN Più in generale , è ormai tempo di affrontare la questione del controllo parlamentare in un modo nuovo . 
ITALIAN Il secondo modo è costituito dall ' adozione della Carta europea dei diritti fondamentali , con valore vincolante , comprendente la tutela dei diritti per i cittadini europei che potranno presentare direttamente le proprie rivendicazioni ; si garantiranno così non solo i diritti procedurali , ma anche i diritti sostanziali , che tuteleranno gli interessi dei cittadini in modo ragionevole e che comprenderanno anche il diritto al risarcimento nel caso in cui tali interessi vengano lesi . 
ITALIAN L ' eventualità , già ventilata , di elaborare una Carta che sia una semplice dichiarazione di intenti nuocerebbe indubbiamente alla credibilità dell ' Unione la quale , pur dichiarando che la trasparenza dell ' operato delle sue Istituzioni costituisce il suo scopo fondamentale e che l ' avvicinamento al cittadino europeo è un elemento essenziale per la sua integrazione , evita di ammettere che questo strumento fondamentale è imprescindibile per il conseguimento di detti obiettivi . 
ITALIAN La terza via è rappresentata dal potenziamento e dal miglioramento del ruolo del Mediatore , specie agevolandone l ' accesso a tutti i documenti per rendere possibili le indagini . 
ITALIAN -- Signor Presidente , innanzitutto un ringraziamento al Mediatore europeo , signor Söderman , alle due relatrici , l ' onorevole Lambert e l ' onorevole Thors , a tutti i colleghi della commissione per le petizioni e al Segretariato . 
ITALIAN La nostra premessa è costituita dalla convinzione che le Istituzioni siano strumento al servizio dei cittadini e , quindi , la presunta violazione del diritto del cittadino crea una crisi di fiducia verso le Istituzioni . 
ITALIAN Oggi credo che abbiamo l ' esigenza della formazione di un contesto giuridico complesso , complessivo , armonico e funzionale , quindi abbiamo anche l ' esigenza di creare degli strumenti giurisdizionali : la Carta dei diritti , la formazione di un corpus juris che crei un diritto penale , un diritto civile e un diritto amministrativo , le procedure di accordo per il mutuo riconoscimento delle sentenze degli Stati membri , l ' EUROPOL e gli accordi settoriali , la costituzione dell ' OLAF come strumento di accertamento delle violazioni del diritto , la probabile creazione dell ' istituzione di un Procuratore europeo che dovrebbe essere l ' ufficio inquirente della Corte di giustizia , la distinzione tra l ' esercizio del potere inquirente e del potere giudicante , la distinzione del profilo delle responsabilità penali , civili e amministrative : tutte cose , queste , strumenti che fanno progredire l ' Unione europea . 
ITALIAN L ' accordo quadro di ieri è una pietra miliare in questo senso . 
ITALIAN Un ' altra cosa vorremmo chiedere , in ultimo : che la commissione per le petizioni possa dare , come Parlamento , in codecisione , l ' interpretazione autentica di alcune sue decisioni , e poi la modifica dei Trattati , nel senso della razionalizzazione di tutto il sistema giuridico e giurisdizionale e degli strumenti in atto . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , signor Mediatore , signora Commissario , onorevoli colleghi , ringrazio le relatrici per il loro lavoro proficuo , coscienzioso ed esauriente . 
ITALIAN Il Mediatore controlla e risolve le controversie tra l ' autorità e coloro che vi sono soggetti , che l ' anno scorso sono state quasi duemila . 
ITALIAN 
ITALIAN 
ITALIAN Elencherò sette principi : quanto più estesa è un ' unione , tanto maggiore è l ' esigenza di apertura ; quanto più è recente , tanto maggiore è questa esigenza ; quanto più è complessa , tanto maggiore è il bisogno di trasparenza ; quanto più è informatizzata , tanto più aperta dev ' essere ; quanto più è istruita , tanto più dev ' essere pubblica ; quanto più è multiculturale , tanto più è trasparente ; quanto più è democratica , tanto più è aperta . 
ITALIAN Siamo abituati a trovare istruzioni per l ' uso dappertutto e su tutti gli apparecchi , persino sugli sbattitori da cucina ; i principi della buona amministrazione , meritevolmente creati dal Mediatore , costituiscono le istruzioni per l ' uso nei confronti dell ' euroburocrazia . 
ITALIAN Diciamo pure la verità , queste istruzioni sono necessarie ! 
ITALIAN Non c ' è democrazia senza buona amministrazione ; pertanto il Trattato dell ' Unione europea deve assolutamente contenere i principi della buona amministrazione . 
ITALIAN Vi è ancora un aspetto importante : nella società dell ' informazione la pubblicità dei documenti ufficiali e i principi relativi ad essi devono essere portati a un livello ad essa corrispondente , con l ' aiuto delle nuove tecnologie ; in altre parole , la denuncia si deve poter presentare tramite Internet e anche gli atti precedenti e i relativi documenti devono essere disponibili in tempo reale . 
ITALIAN Ritengo che abbiamo bisogno di una porta sulla rete per il Mediatore . 
ITALIAN Grazie per il lavoro svolto ! 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , in veste di membro della commissione per le petizioni , vorrei porgere le mie congratulazioni alla onorevole Lambert per l ' ottima relazione e ringrazio la Commissione europea per il prezioso contributo all ' esame delle petizioni che riceviamo . 
ITALIAN La petizione è un diritto riconosciuto ai cittadini europei e ai residenti dell ' Unione che consente loro di far valere i diritti garantiti dai Trattati . 
ITALIAN Tuttavia pochi cittadini sono consapevoli di poter presentare una petizione . 
ITALIAN Dai dossier che trattiamo si evince peraltro una scarsa conoscenza dei diritti conferiti dalla cittadinanza europea , cosa che si traduc. purtropp. in un 50 percento di petizioni irricevibili . 
ITALIAN Le petizioni ricevibili si riferiscono in particolare a problemi a livello di libertà di circolazione , di stabilimento , di prestazioni di servizi , di prestazioni sociali , di riconoscimento dei diplomi e delle qualifiche , nonché a problemi fiscali . 
ITALIAN Si assiste inoltre ad un aumento delle petizioni collettive che vertono su temi legati all ' ambiente ed è probabile che , con l ' ampliamento delle competenze dell ' Unione , crescerà il numero di tali petizioni e degli ambiti trattati . 
ITALIAN Per soddisfare le aspettative dei cittadini occorre una buona coesione tra commissione per le petizioni , Istituzioni europee e amministrazioni nazionali . 
ITALIAN Il corretto esame delle petizioni risente della cronica assenza del Consiglio alle riunioni . 
ITALIAN Le amministrazioni nazionali sono infatti le prime ad applicare il diritto comunitario ed è pertanto indispensabile che esse lavorino in linea con le Istituzioni europee , in particolar modo Parlamento e Commissione . 
ITALIAN La commissione per le petizioni deve attendere tropp. a volte perfino molti ann. le risposte delle amministrazioni nazionali . 
ITALIAN Siamo pienamente consapevoli dell ' entità del compito e delle difficoltà da superare . 
ITALIAN Si devono inoltre consolidare le strutture e gli strumenti di tale commissione per migliorare la sua efficacia e sarebbe auspicabile stabilire relazioni più strette con le commissioni per le petizioni dei parlamenti nazionali . 
ITALIAN Infine , un ' Europa più vicina ai cittadini costituisce uno dei punti di forza del programma della Presidenza francese . 
ITALIAN Il lavoro della nostra commissione rientra in tale quadro ; sta a noi tradurre in pratica questa aspettativa . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , questa mattina vorrei porgere il benvenuto al signor Söderman e congratularmi con le onorevoli Lambert e Thors per le relazioni che hanno presentato . 
ITALIAN La situazione della nostra società è tale per cui , se governi e autorità potessero fare a modo loro , farebbero volentieri a meno delle commissioni per le petizioni e dei Mediatori ; per natura infatti tendono ad essere piuttosto reticenti . 
ITALIAN Le suddette commissioni e i Mediatori esistono soltanto perché i cittadini e i loro pubblici rappresentanti li richiedono e si ergono in loro difesa quando ci sono ; di conseguenza , è importante che continuiamo a chiedere risorse adeguate sia per la commissione per le petizioni che per l ' ufficio del Mediatore . 
ITALIAN Negando loro tali risorse , infatti , ne limiteremmo l ' efficacia . 
ITALIAN E ' una vergogna che il Parlamento riservi un simile trattamento alla commissione per le petizioni , il collegamento diretto più importante di cui dispongono i cittadini con questa Istituzione e con le altre Istituzioni dell ' Unione europea . 
ITALIAN La commissione manca di un adeguato servizio di segreteria e viene trattata in maniera abominevole per quanto riguarda le traduzioni , che sono in fondo alla lista . 
ITALIAN E ' un trattamento palesemente insufficiente . 
ITALIAN Inviterei i rappresentanti della Commissione e del Consigli. se fossero qui , ma essi ignorano la commissione per le petizioni , come pure il Parlamento - , chiederei loro di fornire le risorse necessarie a questi organismi per espletare il loro compito . 
ITALIAN La commissione per le petizioni in modo particolare è un importante meccanismo d ' accesso per i popoli d ' Europa , ed è quindi essenziale garantire che essa possa svolgere la propria opera in maniera efficace . 
ITALIAN Le due questioni più importanti di cui si occupa la commissione per le petizioni sono il riconoscimento dei titoli di studio perché un cittadino possa lavorare in altri Stati membri e l ' impatto ambientale dello sviluppo edilizio . 
ITALIAN In particolare , vi è un diffuso timore che gli studi di impatto ambientale previsti dalla normativa comunitaria vengano trattati come qualcosa di scarso valore ; infatti vengono ignorati o comunque non vengono affrontati i problemi reali. . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , desidero congratularmi con Jacob Söderman per l ' ottimo lavoro svolto , che ha condotto alla sua rielezione il 27 ottobre dello scorso anno . 
ITALIAN Al contempo , desidero elogiare il Mediatore europeo per la sua relazione annuale , esemplare per chiarezza e completezza . 
ITALIAN Dalla relazione emerge che è la Commissione il principale oggetto delle indagini svolte , quasi nel 77 percento dei casi . 
ITALIAN Certo , viene sottolineato come ciò dipenda soprattutto dal fatto che la Commissione è l ' Istituzione che prende il maggior numero di decisioni suscettibili di un impatto diretto sul cittadino . 
ITALIAN Nell ' esposizione sulle singole denunce emerge comunque un insufficiente grado di trasparenza . 
ITALIAN La mancanza o il rifiuto di informazioni hanno rappresentato infatti la principale causa delle denunce . 
ITALIAN La trasparenza è importante per garantire al cittadino una maggiore possibilità di incidere sul funzionamento dell ' Unione e per contrastare ogni tendenza alla corruzione , alla frode e alle irregolarità . 
ITALIAN Desidero far presente che nella relazione viene ribadito che tutte le Istituzioni e gli organismi dell ' Unione dovranno dotarsi di un codice di buona condotta amministrativa . 
ITALIAN Esiste tuttavia il rischio , cui accenna la relazione del Mediatore , che detto codice possa ricevere contenuti molto diversi a seconda delle Istituzioni e degli organismi . 
ITALIAN L ' aspetto delle pubbliche relazioni nell ' attività del Mediatore , già trattato da altri oratori , non può in alcun caso essere sottovalutato . 
ITALIAN Desidero concludere il mio intervento con alcune domande : quali conseguenze avrà una Carta dei diritti fondamentali sul lavoro del Mediatore ? 
ITALIAN Vi sono risorse a sufficienza per assicurare un lavoro eseguito correttamente ? 
ITALIAN E ' la volontà che manca , sono le risorse a essere insufficienti oppure esiste una burocrazia che impedisce e intralcia l ' evasione delle pratiche ? 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , in base alla relazione del Mediatore e alla relazione Thors si può constatare che l ' istituzione del Mediatore ha rinsaldato la sua posizione . 
ITALIAN La commissione apprezza l ' attività svolta da Jacob Söderman e anche i cittadini hanno scoperto l ' esistenza del Mediatore . 
ITALIAN I pilastri del lavoro del Mediatore sono l ' indipendenza e l ' apertura ; è giusto sottolineare il significato della buona amministrazione per i cittadini e per l ' autorità dell ' Unione europea agli occhi dei cittadini ed è bene che la commissione sostenga gli sforzi del Mediatore nell ' applicare le regole della buona amministrazione . 
ITALIAN Il principio della buona amministrazione sta per essere adottato anche nella Carta dei diritti fondamentali in corso di preparazione . 
ITALIAN Dalla relazione si evince che solo circa il 30 percento delle petizioni indirizzate al Mediatore ricade nella sua sfera di competenza ; pertanto si deve ulteriormente rinsaldare la cooperazione tra il Mediatore europeo e i suoi omologhi nazionali e locali . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , onorevoli colleghi , è per me motivo di soddisfazione prendere parte al dibattito di oggi insieme al Mediatore europeo Söderman , la cui opera al servizio dei cittadini dell ' Unione è davvero importante e molto apprezzata dalla Commissione . 
ITALIAN La Commissione è consapevole che il cittadino dev ' essere sempre al centro delle nostre preoccupazioni , perché è il cittadino il destinatario di tutte le nostre attività e la giustificazione della nostra ragione d ' essere . 
ITALIAN In questo senso , sia la commissione per le petizioni che il Mediatore europeo svolgono un compito fondamental. a livelli diversi , con effetti divers. ed essenziale per il miglioramento del funzionamento delle istituzioni . 
ITALIAN La commissione per le petizioni si occupa delle preoccupazioni concrete dei cittadini e come sottolinea la onorevole Lambert , con la quale mi congratulo sinceramente per la relazione , le petizioni presentate al Parlamento illustrano i problemi incontrati dai cittadini nei rapporti con le amministrazioni europee e spesso anche nazionali , mettendo in rilievo allo stesso tempo le lacune legislative che esistono a livello sia europeo sia nazionale . 
ITALIAN Il Mediatore europeo , come afferma la onorevole Thors , che colgo l ' occasione per ringraziare per la relazione , si occupa delle denunce contro le Istituzioni e gli organismi dell ' Unione europea per inadempienze amministrative ; egli ci sprona a migliorare la gestione e la qualità dei servizi segnalandoci i punti deboli , che necessitano di miglioramenti e di maggiore attenzione . 
ITALIAN Tuttavia , i primi a volere un ' amministrazione più efficace e trasparente siamo proprio noi , i responsabili di questa amministrazione e in tal senso sono benvenute le critiche rivolte ai nostri difetti . 
ITALIAN Infatti soltanto conoscendo i difetti è possibile porvi rimedio . 
ITALIAN E ' per questo , insisto , che per il buon funzionamento delle istituzioni attribuiamo grande importanza al lavoro svolto sia dal Mediatore europeo sia dalla commissione per le petizioni . 
ITALIAN In riferimento alla relazione della onorevole Lambert , vorrei affrontare due aspetti concreti . 
ITALIAN Vorrei esprimere la mia soddisfazione perché la relazione sottolinea il ruolo costruttivo svolto dalla Commissione al momento di esaminare le petizioni e perché lo considera complessivamente soddisfacente . 
ITALIAN Essa ci dà una specie di approvazione di cui siamo grati , ma cercheremo di migliorare . 
ITALIAN In secondo luogo , la relazione propone una revisione delle procedure d ' esame della commissione per le petizioni . 
ITALIAN Ebbene , desidero dire che mi sembra magnifica l ' idea di raggruppare l ' esame delle petizioni per argomento , affidare a relatori specializzati il compito di esaminare tali petizioni nel dettaglio ed eventualmente di trarre conclusioni che consentano di correggere i difetti , di prendere decisioni per risolvere eventuali lacune dei testi legislativi o di contrastare effetti indesiderati di tali testi . 
ITALIAN Allo stesso modo , la Commissione è disposta a prendere in considerazione la revisione dell ' accordo interistituzionale con il Parlamento e il Consiglio sulla presentazione delle petizioni che modifichi quello in vigore , risalente al 1989, soprattutto in un ambito che ritengo fondamentale e che è stato segnalato da alcuni oratori , ovvero il problema dei tempi di risposta . 
ITALIAN E ' vero che , a volte , le nostre risposte si fanno attendere a lungo . 
ITALIAN Non sempre la colpa va attribuita alla Commissione ; a volte dipendiamo dalle risposte delle amministrazioni nazionali ; tuttavia è vero che in questo ambito dobbiamo fare uno sforzo per migliorare e per poter contribuire in maniera ancora più soddisfacente al lavoro della commissione . 
ITALIAN Desidero sottolineare l ' importanza della collaborazione con altre amministrazioni , collaborazione che vorremmo migliorare il più possibile . 
ITALIAN La Commissione è aperta al dialogo sia con il Parlamento che con il Consiglio per migliorare i tempi di risposta ed accrescere la trasparenza e la comunicazione con il Parlamento e la commissione per le petizioni . 
ITALIAN Riguardo alla relazione Thors , posso dire che concordiamo sulla necessità di consolidare l ' indipendenza del Mediatore europeo come istituzione e di sostenere la sua opera a favore della trasparenza e dell ' apertura . 
ITALIAN Riteniamo che il principio della motivazione delle decisioni che riguardano i cittadini sia essenziale e cerchiamo di applicarlo in maniera sistematica . 
ITALIAN Inoltre , desidero aggiungere che accettiamo la definizione secondo cui si ha una cattiva amministrazione quando un organismo pubblico non agisce conformemente ad una regola o a un principio a cui è vincolato . 
ITALIAN Vorrei tuttavia dire che , come ha sottolineato assai bene Jacob Söderman , il Mediatore europeo è un organo non giudiziario e pertanto non può mai sostituirsi agli organi giudiziari . 
ITALIAN E ' vero che la realtà , ogni giorno più importante , dell ' istituzione del Mediatore europeo , che è un ' istituzione più giovane per alcuni aspetti rispetto ad altre della struttura europea , richiede un certo tempo di maturazione affinché i cittadini possano conoscerla . 
ITALIAN Il Mediatore europeo , nella sua relazione , ha riferito che è stato registrato un forte aumento delle denunce e delle indagini nel corso di quest ' ultimo anno e ciò va attribuito ad una maggiore conoscenza dell ' istituzione da parte dei cittadini . 
ITALIAN E ' necessario un periodo di maturazione nei rapporti tra il Mediatore europeo e le altre Istituzioni allo scopo di stabilire gli equilibri desiderati e risolvere le tensioni logiche che possono esistere finché le cose non si avviino . 
ITALIAN Devo dire , però , che finora la collaborazione tra Commissione e l ' istituzione del Mediatore europeo e della persona che lo rappresenta , Jacob Söderman , è stata magnifica . 
ITALIAN Tuttavia , vorrei dire che non è possibile additare l ' amministrazione comunitaria come particolarmente affetta da questi difetti . 
ITALIAN L ' elaborazione di un codice di condotta applicabile ai rapporti dei funzionari comunitari con i cittadini è una priorità ed è in questo senso che stanno lavorando il Commissario Kinnock e la Commissione in generale . 
ITALIAN Riguardo alle modifiche dello statuto del Mediatore europeo è la commissione competente che , al momento opportuno , deve emettere un parere in conformità all ' articolo 195 del Trattato e quando il Parlamento prenderà l ' iniziativa analizzeremo tutte le questioni pertinenti . 
ITALIAN Onorevoli deputati , rinnovo ancora una volta le mie congratulazioni alle due relatrici e colgo l ' occasione per esprimere la mia gratitudine al Mediatore europeo Söderman per l ' ottimo lavoro svolto dalla sua posizione di indipendenza e dal rigore del suo incarico . 
ITALIAN , Mediatore . ( EN ) Signor Presidente , la ringrazio per avermi dato la parola : ho così la possibilità di rispondere alle domande che sono state poste . 
ITALIAN La domanda dell ' onorevole Turco riguardava il diritto di presentare denunce utilizzando la posta elettronica ; l ' ufficio del Mediatore europeo riconosce questa prassi ormai da qualche anno , poiché l ' onorevole Dell ' Alba ci ha convinto dell ' importanza di questa opportunità . 
ITALIAN Attualmente , circa il 20 percento delle denunce che riceviamo giungono per posta elettronica ; se consultate il nostro sito , troverete un modulo che può essere inviato direttamente per posta elettronica . 
ITALIAN L ' onorevole Paasilinna ha parlato della possibilità di sviluppare il sito in tale direzione ; abbiamo già accesso diretto a tutti i siti dei Mediatori regionali o nazionali , ma ovviamente tutto ciò è suscettibile di ulteriori sviluppi . 
ITALIAN La onorevole Raschhofer ha ricordato la proposta di regolamento sull ' accesso pubblico ai documenti , una questione che è stata oggetto di dibattito ; vorrei sottolineare che attualmente il documento è in discussione al Parlamento . 
ITALIAN Il lavoro della commissione può cominciare . 
ITALIAN Nei colloqui che ho avuto con il Presidente Prodi , egli mi ha detto che è disposto a guardare con favore a tutte le proposte ragionevoli volte a migliorare tale regolamento che , come ho detto , viene discusso in Parlamento . 
ITALIAN La onorevole Malmström ci ha informato che alcuni Stati membri ignorano l ' esistenza dell ' ufficio del Mediatore ; purtroppo , se ci facessimo troppa pubblicità , riceveremmo molte denunce che esulano dal nostro mandato . 
ITALIAN Cerchiamo quindi d ' individuare quei cittadini che hanno problemi con le autorità e le cui denunce sono motivate . 
ITALIAN I deputati del Parlamento rappresentano un ' importante fonte di informazione per molti cittadini ; sarei lieto se voleste collaborare con noi per far conoscere ai cittadini la possibilità di presentare petizioni e denunce . 
ITALIAN Grazie , signor Söderman . 
ITALIAN La discussione è chiusa . 
ITALIAN L ' ordine del giorno reca la discussione sulla relazione ( A5 - 0141 / 2000 ) , presentata dall ' onorevole Atkins a nome della commissione per la politica regionale , i trasporti e il turismo , sulla comunicazione della Commissione al Consiglio e al Parlamento europeo relativa alla creazione del cielo unico europeo ( COM ( 1999 ) 61 . 
ITALIAN C5 - 0085 / 200 . 
ITALIAN 2000 / 2053 ( COS ) ) . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , ci riuniamo quando ormai la congestione dello spazio aereo ha raggiunto livelli senza precedenti . 
ITALIAN Secondo le statistiche , la percentuale dei ritardi di 15 minuti è aumentata dal 12,7 percento del 1991 al 30,3 percento del 1999 e continua a crescere . 
ITALIAN Non siamo preoccupati soltanto per gli effetti della congestione in termini di disagi e di implicazioni per la stabilità economica della nostra Unione ; quello che ci preoccupa più di ogni altra cosa è che essa potrebbe pregiudicare la sicurezza . 
ITALIAN La domanda in materia di trasporto aereo cresce quasi giornalmente a causa del basso costo dei biglietti , del desiderio della gente di andare all ' estero in vacanza o per affari e della possibilità di concedersi una pausa di qualche giorno senza doverci pensare troppo ; tutto questo aumenta la pressione sul traffico aereo , e perciò dobbiamo congratularci con coloro che lavorano nel settore e ringraziarli per quanto hanno fatto finora . 
ITALIAN Purtroppo essi non riescon. e ciò non dipende soltanto da loro - a reggere la pressione nel migliore dei modi ; abbiamo potuto sperimentarlo di recente , in seguito ai ritardi provocati dallo sciopero che ha interessato la Francia . 
ITALIAN Tutto ciò ha avuto un effetto deleterio sulla mobilità dei nostri cittadini , anche in relazione ai costi economici , finanziari e sociali sostenuti dalle nostre imprese e da diverse categorie colpite giornalmente da questi eventi . 
ITALIAN Vorrei congratularmi con il Commissario , signora De Palacio , per aver sottoposto la questione alla nostra commissione in questi termini , per la forza e il vigore che essa ha mostrato , inizialmente , nell ' istituire il gruppo ad alto livello e per la decisione con cui ha affrontato il problema . 
ITALIAN La Commissione ha quindi contribuito in maniera sostanziale ad affrontare il problema della saturazione dello spazio aereo . 
ITALIAN Abbiamo bisogno di un cielo unico che sovrasti il mercato unico , ma si deve riconoscere che i singoli Stati hanno una propria opinione sul modo di affrontare tale questione , soprattutto nella misura in cui essa influisce sul mantenimento della forza lavoro e per quanto riguarda l ' uso dello spazio aereo nazionale a scopi militari . 
ITALIAN Lo spazio aereo militare e le violazioni che vi sono connesse in alcuni paesi sono un altro punto che dobbiamo affrontare per quanto concerne non solo lo spazio occupato dall ' aviazione militare , ma anche le violazioni dei corridoi aerei civili da parte dall ' aviazione militare che non rispetta le prassi del trasporto aereo civile . 
ITALIAN Anche questo è un aspetto di cui dobbiamo occuparci . 
ITALIAN Nella relazione ho propost. e la commissione si è in linea generale dichiarata d ' accord. che Eurocontrol diventi un ' autorità preposta alla regolamentazione fornita di maggiori poteri , capace di imporre sanzioni più efficaci e che i diretti interessati possano rivolgersi ad essa . 
ITALIAN D ' altra parte , crediamo che l ' offerta di servizi nel settore del traffico aereo debba essere aperta alla liberalizzazione e soggetta alle decisioni dei singoli Stati . 
ITALIAN I deputati sanno bene che nel Regno Unito abbiamo affrontato la questione introducendo il principio della privatizzazione ; ciò può andar bene per noi , ma non è necessariamente la soluzione più opportuna per tutti . 
ITALIAN Sta ai singoli Stati decidere ; essi però devono affrontare il problema della divisione tra regolamentazione del proprio spazio aereo e gestione dei servizi aerei , che potrebbe essere offerta da una o più organizzazioni . 
ITALIAN Siamo convinti che sia necessario fornire criteri obiettivi e indipendenti per la gestione del sistema ; riteniamo ugualmente indispensabile offrire incentivi a coloro che a tali criteri si adeguano , imponendo invece sanzioni a coloro che non soddisfano gli standard auspicati . 
ITALIAN Stimiamo opportuno compensare i passeggeri per i ritardi ingiustificati e crediamo che i loro diritti in questi casi dovrebbero essere chiari e conosciuti . 
ITALIAN Soprattutto desideriamo che il Commissario , signora De Palacio , faccia pression. col nostro appoggi. sul Consiglio e sugli altri organismi ad esso associati affinché adottino decisioni con urgenza . 
ITALIAN Se c ' è una critica generale che è stata mossa alla relazione da parte dell ' industria , è che forse essa è poco audace o si muove troppo lentamente . 
ITALIAN Non si può continuare così : è giunto il momento di affrontare la questione . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , se me lo consente , vorrei esporre brevemente alcune osservazioni in merito alla relazione in esame . 
ITALIAN E ' evidente che l ' organizzazione del controllo aereo nei cieli europei dev ' essere totalmente rivista . 
ITALIAN In tal senso l ' iniziativa della Commissione è encomiabile . 
ITALIAN Tuttavia , anche se non si può negare che essa debba essere ripensata e che tutto vada chiarito , ritengo che si debba diffidare di alcune delle idee esposte nelle relazioni , nelle comunicazioni e negli interventi sul tema . 
ITALIAN E ' altrettanto evidente che la frammentazione politica del cielo europeo non corrisponde più alle esigenze tecniche e di mercato . 
ITALIAN E ' con grande sorpresa che ho appreso che nell ' Europa d ' oggi sono ancora essenzialmente le frontiere politiche a prevalere in materia di organizzazione del controllo aereo . 
ITALIAN Si deve creare uno spazio europeo del controllo aereo . Tuttavia tale spazio va totalmente unificato ? 
ITALIAN In base a quali criteri ? Le conclusioni della relazione suscitano molteplici interrogativi . 
ITALIAN A mio avviso è ovvio che il frazionamento del controllo aereo comporti alcuni vantaggi . Il controllo aereo presuppone infatti una suddivisione del territorio ed i limiti di sicurezza tecnic. così come i limiti uman. presuppongono che ciascun controllore e ciascuna postazione di controllo abbiano un territorio limitato ed un numero limitato di voli da seguire . 
ITALIAN In tal senso , l ' organizzazione a maglie del territorio europeo deve essere mantenuta e , in un certo senso , ampliata . 
ITALIAN Sono pertanto favorevole ad aumentare i centri di controllo purché non si parli di unificazione dell ' intero controllo , bensì di unificazione del sistema giuridico e di unificazione tecnologica , poiché la relazione e l ' istruzione di tale relazione hanno evidenziato la mancanza di una volontà europea.. . 
ITALIAN ( Il Presidente toglie la parola all ' oratore ) 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , signora Vicepresidente , onorevoli colleghi , desidero innanzi tutto ringraziare sentitamente l ' onorevole Atkins per l ' eccellente relazione che ha preparato . 
ITALIAN Ritengo che sia giusto fare una netta distinzione tra la funzione regolamentatrice e quella operativa , e ai punti 4 e 5 ribadiamo che noi , come Parlamento , abbiamo deciso già due volte che la funzione regolamentatrice dev ' essere demandata all ' Unione europea . 
ITALIAN Mi riallaccio così alle argomentazioni formulate dal precedente oratore . 
ITALIAN E ' ovvio che occorre distinguere e specificare che nel settore operativo ci possono essere diverse o anche molte società di servizi ; la funzione regolamentatrice , però , deve restare di competenza dell ' Unione europea o , piuttosto , deve diventarlo . 
ITALIAN Ma questo non è un problema . 
ITALIAN L ' Unione europea conta oggi quindici Stati membri , mentre altri dodici hanno chiesto di aderirvi . 
ITALIAN Se si procede sin d ' ora in base al sistema dello Spazio economico europeo fissando le regole comuni e poi interpellando i paesi candidati , questi ultimi possono essere integrati . 
ITALIAN Anche alla luce di ciò reputo giusto l ' approccio in base al quale la Commissione europea , stante l ' attuale situazione relativamente alla funzione regolamentatrice , debba riunire sotto Eurocontrol gli interessi di tutti gli Stati membri . 
ITALIAN Per quanto concerne la funzione regolamentatrice , abbiamo bisogno non di frammentazione , ma di unità . 
ITALIAN Nutriamo grande stima per la Vicepresidente della Commissione , cui si deve l ' istituzione di questo gruppo composto da esperti civili e militari che lavora alacremente , nonostante il persistere di qualche resistenza da parte di alcuni paesi . 
ITALIAN Formuliamo i nostri migliori auguri alla Vicepresidente , nell ' auspicio che in ottobre possiamo disporre di un programma eccellente . 
ITALIAN Lamentiamo però la mancanza di integrazione con le altre iniziative che ella persegue , come risulta evidente dalla sua comunicazione . 
ITALIAN Notiamo inoltre la mancanza di volontà politica in seno sia della Commissione sia del Consiglio , sebbene valga la pena di ricordare che l ' iniziativa è stata avviata nel giugno dello scorso anno dal Consiglio che ha chiesto al Commissario di presentare la comunicazione in esame . 
ITALIAN In effetti , nel marzo di quest ' anno , il Consiglio di Lisbona ha cercato di fare dei progressi : progressi che , sono certo , noi tutti auspichiamo . 
ITALIAN Vorrei quindi ringraziarlo per aver tenuto conto di molte delle nostre preoccupazioni , soprattutto nel settore della sicurezza , che nella relazione rappresenta la priorità fondamentale . 
ITALIAN La principale preoccupazione del gruppo PSE riguarda il mancato approfondimento della causa dei ritardi del traffico aereo : lo sviluppo incontrollato della capacità degli aeroporti , la programmazione delle compagnie aeree , il comportamento dei passeggeri , le infrastrutture aeroportuali e la carenza di controllori , ricordata dal relatore . 
ITALIAN Ci sta poi molto a cuore un principio fondamentale che sosteniamo e che dev ' essere ulteriormente sviluppato : quello della separazione dell ' attività di regolamentazione da quella dei prestatori di servizi . 
ITALIAN Questo dev ' essere un elemento chiave del nostro nuovo approccio . 
ITALIAN Il terzo principio che noi sosteniamo è la liberalizzazione , ma non la privatizzazione ; infine vogliamo che queste proposte vengano sviluppate insieme alla Autorità europea per la sicurezza aerea , di cui è stata proposta la creazione . 
ITALIAN Infatti , la sicurezza dev ' essere per noi una norma guida e sono certo che diverrà il nostro principio ispiratore nei mesi a venire . 
ITALIAN Tra il 1986 e il 1996 il traffico aereo in Europa è raddoppiato e raddoppierà ancora nei prossimi dieci anni ; dobbiamo affrontare la questione con urgenza , ma in maniera coerente . 
ITALIAN Ciò che oggi gradiremmo sentire dalla signora Commissario è un programma che definisca i tempi di attuazione per i mesi futuri . 
ITALIAN Sappiamo tutti che quest ' estate le sale d ' aspetto degli aeroporti saranno affollate di persone che chiederanno perché il loro volo è in ritardo , non di pochi minuti , ma di ore . 
ITALIAN Spero che oggi la signora Commissario possa presentarci un programma che ci dica quando questi ritardi cesseranno . 
ITALIAN Attendo con impazienza i suoi commenti e soprattutto mi auguro che informi il Parlamento sulle conclusioni raggiunte la settimana scorsa dal Consiglio che ha ricevuto la relazione interinale del gruppo ad alto livello . 
ITALIAN Sollecito i colleghi ad approvare la proposta del relatore ed esorto la signora Commissario a presentare un programma ben definito . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , signora Commissario , onorevoli colleghi , penso che l ' onorevole Atkins abbia elaborato un ' ottima relazione , nella quale indica con chiarezza la direzione che dobbiamo prendere in quanto ci troviamo in una situazione paradossale in cui abbiamo un mercato unico per il trasporto aereo , ma abbiamo un cielo diviso in maniera del tutto assurda . 
ITALIAN Abbiamo già avuto modo di sentire alcuni colleghi che hanno descritto le conseguenze di tale paradosso . 
ITALIAN Se vogliamo uno spazio aereo unico , dobbiamo fare degli investimenti , come sottolineato nella relazione . 
ITALIAN Pertanto è evidente che bisogna reperire i fondi necessari . 
ITALIAN Ciò significa anch. e penso che si tratti di un punto ancor più difficil. che si devono adottare con grande rapidità decisioni politiche , che possono puntare in un ' unica direzione . 
ITALIAN Noi dobbiamo affrontare la questione a livello europeo . 
ITALIAN Siamo tutti concordi nel ritenere che gli Stati membri debbano finalmente decidere che cosa fare . 
ITALIAN Anche i servizi nazionali devono capire che hanno fatto il loro tempo , che dobbiamo avere un servizio europeo e non più nazionale , perché questa è la causa di tutti i mali , se così posso dire . 
ITALIAN Naturalmente i servizi devono occupare una posizione di primo piano , perché il controllo del trasporto aereo non è un settore a sé , ma rappresenta un servizio offerto ad una compagnia aerea e ai suoi clienti . 
ITALIAN Talvolta lo si dimentica e si pensa ad una cerchia ristretta di persone . 
ITALIAN Quando parliamo di servizi su un mercato unico , ciò implica la fine dei monopoli e significa che dobbiamo disporre di una normativa europea chiara , senza monopoli nel campo dei servizi . 
ITALIAN Siamo tutti d ' accordo su questo punto e mi auguro che potremo procedere a grandi passi . 
ITALIAN Un aspetto importante , sul quale ha già richiamato l ' attenzione l ' onorevole Watts , è costituito dalla sicurezza . A tale proposito non si può fare alcune concessione . 
ITALIAN Signora Commissario , il punto essenzial. e penso che anche lei lo riconosca senza problem. è che , quando in ottobre il gruppo ad alto livello pubblicherà le sue conclusioni , lei presenti quanto prima delle proposte , che successivamente tutti esercitino delle pressioni sul Consiglio , che gli Stati membri adottino le decisioni che devono adottare e che queste si muovano nella direzione da noi già indicata alcune volte in seno al Parlamento europeo e che ora è stata ribadita nella relazione dell ' onorevole Atkins . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , la relazione si occupa del problema dell ' aumento del traffico aereo ; vorrei concentrarmi soltanto su un aspetto della relazione o , meglio , su un ' importante omissione . 
ITALIAN Le opzioni che ci vengono offerte si concentrano su aspetti tecnici piuttosto che sulle tendenze fondamentali . 
ITALIAN Indubbiamente un cielo unico europeo renderebbe più efficiente l ' utilizzo dello spazio aereo europeo e migliorando la gestione del traffico aereo aumenterebbe lo spazio disponibile . 
ITALIAN Anche la limitazione dello spazio aereo utilizzato dai trasporti militari sarebbe un intervento significativo . 
ITALIAN Nessuna di queste soluzioni tecniche potrà influire significativamente nel lungo periodo se non affronteremo prima il problema fondamentale : la crescita insostenibile del traffico aereo . 
ITALIAN La relazione non riesce a collegare il problema della congestione con la riduzione del traffico aereo , non accenna ad una strategia vitale . 
ITALIAN E ' come se cercassimo di arrestare un allagamento cambiando posizione ai secchi sotto il rubinetto senza considerare la possibilità di girare il rubinetto per ridurre il flusso d ' acqua . 
ITALIAN Consideriamo i fatti . 
ITALIAN La recente relazione della Commissione ci ha già informato che la crescita del settore aereo è insostenibile e dev ' essere arrestata e che nei prossimi 15 anni si prevede il raddoppiamento del traffico aereo . 
ITALIAN Ciò provocherà gravi problemi di congestione , ma anche ambientali. legati non solo al rumore e l ' inquinamento che affliggono i residenti delle zone vicine agli aeroporti , ma anche all ' impatto sul clima . 
ITALIAN A livello mondiale , il trasporto aereo è già la fonte di emissioni di gas a effetto serra in più rapida crescita ed entro il 2050 potrebbe ammontare al 15 percento . 
ITALIAN Purtroppo la relazione non individua il collegamento vitale fra riduzione della congestione e del traffico aereo e si lascia quindi sfuggire una grande occasione per dare a questi problemi una risposta a lungo termine . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , signora Commissario , ritengo che l ' espressione " cielo unico europeo " sia ambigua , poiché è risaputo che il controllo aereo è già , di fatto , un ambito d ' attività europeo . 
ITALIAN Esiste un controllo europeo dello spazio aereo con Eurocontrol ed esiste un ente preposto , il Central Flow Management Unit , con sede a Bruxelles . 
ITALIAN Il sistema non è perfetto , è vero , tuttavia esiste . 
ITALIAN Si deve pertanto migliorare la situazione a partire dall ' ovvia constatazione che i ritardi si sono accentuati e che , dato che il traffico tende a crescere , essi aumenteranno ancor di più . 
ITALIAN E ' ampiamente riconosciuto che i ritardi sono imputabili a molteplici cause ; tuttavia ritengo che ci si trovi di fronte ad un ' offensiva tesa a presentare il controllo aereo come l ' unico responsabile dei ritardi . 
ITALIAN Sarebbe opportuno , credo , considerare anche molto di più i problemi riconducibili ai diversi tipi di aerei , alle tipologie dei flussi , degli scali e delle rotazioni , nonché i problemi che sussistono sul versante della difesa . 
ITALIAN L ' onorevole Zimeray lo diceva poc ' anzi : il tragitto di un aereo è frazionato in spazi e quanto più il traffico è denso , tante più sono le divisioni in spazi . 
ITALIAN La divisione in spazi corrisponde infatti alla capacità umana di controllare , di gestire un determinato numero di aerei . 
ITALIAN Pertanto , ritenere che vi sia un eccessivo numero di centri di controllo è , a mio avviso , un ' assurdità . 
ITALIAN Perché non sostenere allora che ci sono troppi aerei ? 
ITALIAN Non vi sono neanche , che io sappia , posti di blocco del controllo aereo specifici alle zone di frontiera . 
ITALIAN La grande proposta che ci viene presentata per migliorare il traffico consiste nel separare le funzioni di regolamentazione e di controllo . 
ITALIAN Tuttavia qual è l ' interesse di tale misura ? 
ITALIAN La necessità di riflettere su frazionamenti più appropriati è plausibile , ma non è questo il contenuto della proposta . 
ITALIAN La separazione delle funzioni condurrebbe alla liberalizzazione della fornitura dei servizi del traffico aereo e alla creazione , come dice la relazione dell ' onorevole Atkins , di un mercato interno liberalizzato . 
ITALIAN Parlare di controllo aereo non equivale a parlare di una compagnia aerea né di un settore commerciale . 
ITALIAN La sua principale funzione , non va dimenticato , è di garantire la sicurezza . 
ITALIAN Credo pertanto che sia contrario alla sicurezza sottoporre gli organismi di controllo o di certificazione degli aerei alla pressione dei mercati . 
ITALIAN Va dunque preservata la capacità d ' investire in nuovi strumenti tecnologici e nella formazione . 
ITALIAN Il sistema funziona . 
ITALIAN In nome di cosa si vuole spezzare.. . 
ITALIAN ( Il Presidente toglie la parola all ' oratore ) 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , la presente relazione parte da una constatazione ovvia , seppure molto sentita da noi parlamentari europei , che utilizziamo di frequente l ' aereo come mezzo di trasporto : quella che il cielo è sempre più congestionato a causa della crescente domanda . 
ITALIAN A questo eccesso di aerei corrisponde inevitabilmente un aumento dei ritardi , con i conseguenti danni per i passeggeri , le imprese , le attività commerciali e il turismo . 
ITALIAN Come ha asserito il relatore , pensiamo che il trasporto aereo vada considerato un sistema organico a cui fanno capo gli operatori , gli aeroporti e i servizi di sicurezza aerea , i cui elementi sono direttamente interdipendenti e , pertanto , riteniamo che l ' unico modo per risolvere i problemi di capacità dello spazio aereo consista nell ' avviare un ' analisi globale . 
ITALIAN Ecco perché accogliamo con favore la creazione del gruppo ad alto livello composto da rappresentanti civili e militari e presieduto dalla signora Commissario De Palacio , che si occuperà di studiare la questione dei ritardi aerei al fine di ridurre al minimo i problemi causati dal trasporto aereo e che dovrà presentare in merito una relazione al Consiglio . 
ITALIAN Non vediamo , infatti , quale sia il nesso tra questa pretesa liberalizzazione e la questione dei ritardi , che occorre risolvere con urgenza . 
ITALIAN D ' altro canto , siamo d ' accordo con il fatto che le soluzioni proposte devono essere prese nel rispetto della sovranità nazionale degli Stati membri , limitando l ' accentramento dell ' attività normativa alle materie strettamente necessarie ; esse devono , inoltre , tutelare le esigenze particolari legati alla difesa e alle necessità militari specifiche di ciascuno Stato , nonché rispettare gli impegni sottoscritti da tutti in seno alle organizzazioni internazionali . 
ITALIAN Ciò non significa che gli Stati non siano tenuti a rendere il più flessibile possibile il transito degli aerei nello spazio aereo superiore e a trovare formule di coordinamento più efficaci con le necessità operative di natura militare . 
ITALIAN Anche il programma di gestione aerea europea , che mira ad ottenere il coordinamento e l ' integrazione completa dei sistemi ATM su scala europea , dev ' essere approfondito nell ' ambito di Eurocontrol , visto che il problema non risiede tanto nella divisione dello spazio aereo , che può essere giustificabile dal punto di vista dell ' adeguamento del numero di aerei e di rotte sotto la responsabilità di ogni controllore , quanto nell ' armonizzazione tecnica dei sistemi ATM . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , la relazione è pregevole : affronta un tema veramente delicato e , direi , estremamente tecnico , ma il problema è essenzialmente politico . 
ITALIAN E ' giusto allora auspicare un unico controllo del traffico aereo , quanto meno per tutta l ' Unione europea , ovviamente includendo , anche per ragioni tecniche , la Confederazione elvetica . 
ITALIAN Questo è il punto fondamentale e questo permetterà di risolvere molti problemi , unitamente allo sviluppo della tecnica , e qui penso ai sistemi TCAS , ai sistemi GPS , ai sistemi GNNS , che ovviamente favoriscono una più fluida scorrevolezza del traffico aereo . 
ITALIAN Proprio le regole del trasporto aereo , del traffico aereo sono forse le regole più internazionali che esistano , insieme a quelle della navigazione marittima , e quindi è difficile poi scendere nei particolari . 
ITALIAN Non dimentichiamo che esistono altri utilizzatori dello spazio aereo : gli aerotaxi , le compagnie private e anche gli utenti privati degli aerei degli aeroclub . 
ITALIAN Questa è la situazione in cui versa il settore del trasporto aereo . 
ITALIAN Pertanto dobbiamo riflettere sul futuro del settore . 
ITALIAN A mio giudizio , non possiamo accettare come un dato di fatto una crescita illimitata . 
ITALIAN E ' vero che determinati flussi di trasporto non possono essere espletati in altro modo se non per via aerea , ma ciò non riguarda la stragrande maggioranza dei casi . 
ITALIAN La nostra politica si deve orientare su tale constatazione , il che richiede un approccio di ampio respiro e investimenti mirati ed efficaci in modi di trasporto alternativi . 
ITALIAN Non siamo però ancora giunti a questo punto : lo sviluppo delle reti transeuropee vive fasi altalenanti . 
ITALIAN E ' indispensabile ricercare soluzioni alternative a breve termine . 
ITALIAN Mi sembra soprattutto essenziale puntare allo sfruttamento ottimale dello spazio esistente sia nei cieli sia negli aerei . Ciò richiede , come sottolineato dal relatore , misure sotto il profilo personale ed organizzativo . 
ITALIAN La creazione di un unico spazio aereo europeo ci darà per il momento sufficiente respiro per poter configurare , partendo dalla situazione attuale , misure strutturali per contrastare la crescita sfrenata del trasporto aereo . 
ITALIAN Infatti è questo che dobbiamo fare , se vogliamo trasformare in realtà le aspirazioni ad una politica dei trasporti sostenibile . 
ITALIAN Non dobbiamo soltanto stimolare , ma anche imporre restrizioni , ove necessario . 
ITALIAN Per il momento però il relatore offre alcuni spunti interessanti . 
ITALIAN Non molliamo la presa , ma continuiamo a riflettere sul futuro del settore dei trasporti e del trasporto aereo in particolare . 
ITALIAN La relazione Atkins concerne uno degli ambiti più importanti tra le competenze della signora Commissario De Palacio e del Parlamento europeo per i prossimi quattro o cinque anni ; desidero quindi congratularmi con l ' onorevole Atkins per l ' approccio adottato nella relazione in questione . 
ITALIAN E ' ovvio che il problema è enorme . 
ITALIAN Tenuto conto di tutti i voli , i ritardi sono passati dal 12,7 percento del 1991 al 30 percento del 1999 ed entro il 2010 i voli sono destinati a raddoppiare . Tutto ciò ha come conseguenza perdite di tempo , danni economici , saturazione e possibili rischi per la sicurezza . 
ITALIAN Per quanto riguarda la gestione del traffico aereo , il sistema Eurcontrol si è rivelato inadeguato . 
ITALIAN In tale contesto è indispensabile necessario che la Vicepresidente , signora De Palacio , proceda con fermezza , come ha fatto sinora , verso la creazione di un cielo europeo veramente unico . 
ITALIAN Abbandonando la loro giustificata preoccupazione per la gestione dello spazio aereo , gli Stati membri dovrebbero sforzarsi di guardare al futuro , superando i propri confini e le necessità congiunturali . 
ITALIAN Dobbiamo provvedere immediatamente alla definizione dei numerosi dettagli tecnici , come ad esempio i rapporti tra aviazione civile e militare . 
ITALIAN Nel frattempo , però , i viaggiatori devono ottenere un risarcimento per i ritardi delle compagnie aeree ed essere informati dei loro diritti . 
ITALIAN Concludo l ' intervento ribadendo la posizione del Parlamento : al momento di votare la relazione sulla CIG , abbiamo stabilito che il piano regolatore del traffico aereo negli Stati membri debba passare all ' Unione . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , desidero ringraziare l ' onorevole Atkins per la sua relazione e anche per la sua disponibilità a collaborare per la stesura del documento non solo con il mio gruppo , ma anche con gli altri . 
ITALIAN Non ci sono dubbi : i ritardi causati dal controllo del traffico aereo sono un problema , come risulta evidente visitando qualsiasi grande aeroporto in questo periodo . 
ITALIAN Mi dicono che il ritardo medio si aggira sui 20 minuti . 
ITALIAN Per esperienza personale , dirò soltanto che qualcuno deve nutrire un ' avversione particolare per l ' aeroporto di Manchester : infatti quando devo volare con Sabena da Bruxelles a Manchester il ritardo è sempre ben superiore ai 20 minuti . 
ITALIAN Posso dire con certezza che , per chi deve programmare un viaggio , l ' orario è puramente indicativo . 
ITALIAN Si tratta quindi di un problema che dobbiamo affrontare . 
ITALIAN La relazione deve prendere in esame tutti le questioni relative al traffico aereo e adottare un duplice approccio , come ha proposto la Commissione . 
ITALIAN Non tutti i ritardi sono però dovuti ai controlli del traffico aereo . 
ITALIAN Per le compagnie aeree è un ' ottima scusa scaricare la colpa dei ritardi sul traffico aereo ; in aeroporto non c ' è mai nessun rappresentante dei controllori del traffico aereo per dire che ciò non è vero . 
ITALIAN Francamente , molti ritardi sono provocati dall ' inefficienza di alcune compagnie aeree . 
ITALIAN I passeggeri non si trovano : mi ha sempre stupito il gran numero di passeggeri che manca all ' appello negli aeroporti . 
ITALIAN Che cosa combina questa gente , mi chiedo ! 
ITALIAN Invariabilmente anche loro , al pari del traffico aereo , provocano ritardi . 
ITALIAN La questione di Eurocontrol è importante ; siamo a favore del compromesso raggiunto a questo proposito con il punto 8 . 
ITALIAN Concordiamo inoltre sul fatto che i militari debbano cedere parte del loro spazio aereo . 
ITALIAN Infine ci sono alcuni emendamenti presentati dal gruppo TDI . 
ITALIAN Sono particolarmente interessato all ' emendamento n . 
ITALIAN 24 ; posso soltanto presumere che il gruppo TDI debba.. . 
ITALIAN ( Il Presidente interrompe l ' oratore ) 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , anch ' io vorrei ringraziare il relatore per l ' ottimo lavoro . 
ITALIAN L ' esperienza di lunedì scorso conferma che si tratta di una relazione estremamente importante . 
ITALIAN Molti parlamentari hanno impiegato persino quindici ore per arrivare qui a Strasburgo in aereo : alcuni voli sono stati cancellati e molti erano in enorme ritardo . 
ITALIAN La situazione è davvero insostenibile : lo spazio aereo è congestionato , i voli subiscono continui ritardi e i diritti dei passeggeri sono del tutto inesistenti . 
ITALIAN La relazione propone alcune azioni giuste , che vanno attuate senza esitazione . 
ITALIAN Non credo comunque che bastino , visto che si prevede il raddoppio del traffico aereo nel prossimo decennio . 
ITALIAN Alcuni voli brevi devono essere sostituiti dal servizio ferroviario , per riservare spazio ai voli su distanze più lunghe , per i quali non ci sono alternative . 
ITALIAN Le relazioni volte a migliorare la competitività del trasporto ferroviario sono importantissime anche da questo punto di vista . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , signora Commissario , onorevoli colleghi , con la globalizzazione abbiamo scoperto che , partendo dalla nostra città , gli aerei ci portano in qualsiasi parte del mondo e ciò ci è piaciuto tanto che non possiamo più vivere senza volare . 
ITALIAN Tuttavia , così come ad un certo momento abbiamo scoperto che le città erano congestionate a causa delle automobili , ora è lo spazio aereo che si sta congestionando per via dell ' eccessivo traffico : si accumulano abitualmente ritardi , le valigie si smarriscono e abbiamo dovuto sopportare qualsiasi tipo di sciopero bianco e di agitazione sindacale . 
ITALIAN Noi consumatori riteniamo che i nostri diritti vadano stabiliti e difesi e che occorra gestire meglio le linee aeree , gli aeroporti , gli orari dei voli e il controllo della navigazione aerea . 
ITALIAN Tuttavia , pensiamo che occorra condividere maggiormente la sovranità aerea tra tutti gli europei e che esista una vasta parte dello spazio aereo riservato che non viene sfruttato socialmente come i tempi richiedono . 
ITALIAN Per questo motivo , oltre a riformare Eurocontrol , ad aumentare il numero di frequenze radio e ad applicare tecnologie migliori e nuove nella gestione del traffico affinché possano trovare posto più corridoi aerei e più aerei , negli attuali tempi di normalità è necessario che l ' aviazione commerciale civile possa utilizzare gli spazi riservati , soprattutto alle quote o alle altitudini più elevate , che di solito non sono molto usate dai militari . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , signora Commissario , onorevoli colleghi , al pari del relatore e degli oratori precedenti penso anch ' io che urga adottare misure adeguate per affrontare e risolvere una volta per tutte il problema dei crescenti ritardi nel traffico aereo europeo . 
ITALIAN La discussione in sede di commissione ed anche oggi , qui in Assemblea plenaria , insiste sui modi , i mezzi e i metodi migliori per cambiare la gestione del traffico aereo . 
ITALIAN L ' onorevole Atkins , di cui apprezzo la competenza specifica , e la maggioranza della commissione per la politica regionale , i trasporti e il turismo ritengono che tale obiettivo possa essere raggiunto soprattutto attraverso misure di liberalizzazione . 
ITALIAN E ' fuor di dubbio che la liberalizzazione porta ad un aumento del numero dei prestatori di servizi ; essa però non è in grado di risolvere determinati problemi , anzi , ne crea di nuovi . 
ITALIAN Primo : finché gli Stati membri continueranno a porre i loro legittimi interessi nazionali al di sopra di quelli paneuropei per quanto concerne il coordinamento e l ' utilizzo dello spazio aereo europeo , non si avrà alcun cambiamento sostanziale . 
ITALIAN Secondo : tale situazione è anche una causa della scarsa efficienza di Eurocontrol . 
ITALIAN Non importa che si giunga o meno ad una separazione tra organi competenti per la regolamentazione e quelli competenti per il controllo , non importa che si liberalizzi oppure si privatizzi : finché non ci sarà la volontà politica di accettare il fatto che la questione dello spazio aereo europeo va affrontata in un contesto paneuropeo , non ci sarà nulla da fare e non ci potranno essere d ' aiuto neppure altre dieci relazioni ! 
ITALIAN Terzo : va privilegiato lo sfruttamento civile dello spazio aereo . 
ITALIAN In un ' Europa unita e pacificata , non c ' è più alcun motivo valido per continuare a riservare al settore militare gran parte dello spazio aereo . 
ITALIAN Quarto : non credete che , facendo della liberalizzazione un feticcio , la possibilità che le offerte di servizi per le rotte meno lucrative si riducano al minimo e che non si possa sviluppare una concorrenza leale se non si stabiliscono standard sociali e di sicurezza vincolanti e unitari ? 
ITALIAN Quinto : non c ' è alcun bisogno che la Commissione eserciti la sua influenza sui governi nazionali in caso di conflitti di lavoro , come si chiede al punto 14 della relazione ; c ' è bisogno invece di un dialogo sociale ben funzionante tra tutte le parti interessate al traffico aereo ! 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , la relazione dell ' onorevole Atkins espone alcuni problemi sollevati dall ' evoluzione del sistema aereo in Europa . 
ITALIAN Le controversie del lavoro che a volte creano scompiglio nel traffico prendono in ostaggio , senza preavviso , migliaia di utenti . 
ITALIAN I ritardi sempre più numerosi ed intollerabili non sono soltanto imputabil. come già segnalat. alla congestione degli spazi aerei , ma anche alla pretesa delle compagnie , per esigenze di redditività , di far effettuare ai propri aerei rotazioni , con tempi eccessivamente brevi , irragionevoli e , in definitiva , impraticabili . 
ITALIAN La relazione non accenna tuttavia ad una questione essenziale : quella dei diritti del traffico . Attualmente è molto difficile per una compagnia europea che copre ad esempio la tratta Parig . 
ITALIAN Housto . San Francisco , imbarcare passeggeri in California perché dal punto di vista giuridico ciò è considerato cabotaggio , mentre una compagnia aerea americana con un volo New Yor . 
ITALIAN Madri . 
ITALIAN Parigi può imbarcare passeggeri in Spagna e farli sbarcare in Europa . E ' nel negoziato internazionale dei diritti del traffico che tale concetto di spazio aereo europeo.. . 
ITALIAN ( Il Presidente toglie la parola all ' oratore ) 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , si può osservare che il trasporto aereo è diventato progressivamente accessibile ad un maggior numero di cittadini europei . 
ITALIAN Tale democratizzazione è certo bene accetta , ma solleva importanti questioni per il futuro : crescita del traffico , intasamento degli aeroporti , congestione dello spazio aereo e mancanza di rispetto dell ' ambiente , segnatamente in termini di inquinamento acustico . 
ITALIAN La volontà di creare un traffico aereo ottimale in Europa è animata da buoni sentimenti , ma perché la Commissione dovrebbe rimettere in discussione le politiche aeree degli Stati membri ed i loro accordi bilaterali mediante uno spazio aereo unico ? 
ITALIAN Sottoscrivo , da un lato , l ' obiettivo di razionalizzazione dei movimenti di aerei e , dall ' altro , l ' obiettivo di ricerca di una migliore fluidità del traffico nel pieno rispetto della tutela dei consumatori e della sicurezza degli utenti . 
ITALIAN Mi piacerebbe credere alla signora Commissario De Palacio quando assicura che , cito , " nei lavori della Commissione non si accenna affatto a mettere in concorrenza i servizi del controllo aereo né a privatizzarli " . 
ITALIAN Le agitazioni del personale interessato sarebbero quindi prive di fondamento ? 
ITALIAN La Commissione chiede l ' avvento di un ' autorità preposta alla gestione del traffico aereo che sia un ' autorità regolamentatrice forte . 
ITALIAN 
ITALIAN Sono contrario a tale proposta ; mi oppongo ad una completa revisione di Eurocontrol , così come ad una nuova struttura normativ. l ' attuale funzionamento organizza con efficacia , a conti fatti , in particolare in materia di sicurezza , un traffico equilibrato rispettando i sistemi nazionali a cui ciascuno Stato deve poter avere diritto - , nonché al fatto che la Commissione rappresenti gli Stati membri presso gli altri Stati , annullando di fatto qualsiasi potere decisionale politico in materia di trasporto aereo . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , signora Vicepresidente della Commissione , tanto la comunicazione della Commissione quanto l ' eccellente documento del relatore sono in linea con lo scorso Consiglio europeo di Lisbona , durante il quale è stata chiesta alla Commissione una serie di proposte concrete nel minor tempo possibile . 
ITALIAN Ora spetta al Consiglio prendere le decisioni politiche necessarie e urgenti che consentano d ' integrare il mercato unico dell ' aviazione con un sistema unico di controllo del traffico aereo . 
ITALIAN Attualmente la crescita della domanda si colloca tra il 5 e il 7 percento annuo ed è probabile che si mantenga sullo stesso livello nei prossimi anni , il che rende ancora più arduo il lavoro di uno dei sistemi europei di gestione del traffico aereo che hanno dimostrato di non essere in grado di far fronte a tale sviluppo e ai quali è dovuto oltre il 50 percento dei ritardi , anche se vi sono altre cause , come le limitazioni degli aeroporti , nonché una programmazione dei voli che non tiene conto dei limiti delle infrastrutture . 
ITALIAN Ulteriori cause della scarsa efficacia del sistema attuale sono la diversità dell ' organizzazione del sistema civile rispetto a quello militare , nonché i diversi standard relativi alle infrastrutture tecniche di terra . 
ITALIAN Lo spazio aereo dev ' essere accessibile alle stesse condizioni all ' aviazione generale , commerciale e militare , il che non significa che non si attribuisca priorità o addirittura esclusività di accesso ai militari nell ' eventualità di una crisi . 
ITALIAN Il semplice fatto che si possa verificare una crisi non giustifica che alcuni Stati membri mantengano le norme che vigevano durante la guerra fredda . 
ITALIAN E ' necessario che i controllori civili e militari presso le torri di controllo lavorino in stretta collaborazione . 
ITALIAN E ' chiara la necessità di arrivare ad una cooperazione più efficace tra i diversi usi dello spazio e , a mio avviso , tale cooperazione o impostazione comune dovrà essere ricercata a livello europeo . 
ITALIAN Mi congratulo con il relatore e con la Vicepresidente della Commissione per i punti in comune individuati in un settore così importante e delicato per la vita quotidiana dei cittadini . 
ITALIAN La relazione dell ' onorevole Atkins è un documento dettagliato ed equilibrato , che riflette esattamente l ' attuale posizione del Parlamento . 
ITALIAN Signora Vicepresidente , sappia che siamo al corrente degli sforzi da lei compiuti e che avrà il nostro sostegno lungo la linea da lei intrapresa . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , nutro grosse riserve in merito alla relazione Atkins , in quanto dietro alle migliori intenzioni del mondo essa cela interessi commerciali . 
ITALIAN In realtà , le compagnie aeree auspicano la liberalizzazione totale del controllo aereo , non tanto per motivi di sicurezza , di interoperabilità o di riduzione dei ritardi , quanto per poter accedere ad un mercato dei servizi di controllo che consentirebbe alle più potenti di pagarsi bande orarie care , ma protette , e di lasciare alle altre e all ' aviazione privata il peso dei ritardi . 
ITALIAN Una tale liberalizzazione , sotto forma di cielo unico , comporterebbe un cielo a più velocità . 
ITALIAN Non mi spiego diversamente la caccia alle streghe che emerge dalla relazione nei confronti dei servizi di controllo civile . 
ITALIAN Sappiamo tutti che il grosso dei ritardi dipende dalle servitù militari , dato che soltanto il 30 percento di ess. che va peraltro indubbiamente contrastat. è riconducibile al controllo aereo . 
ITALIAN Si tratta di un problema politico che dipende innanzitutto dalle politiche . 
ITALIAN E ' risaputo che il notevole aumento del traffico aereo è la principale causa tendenziale di congestione e di saturazione dello spazio aereo , così come si sa che occorrerebbe ridurre il numero di piste e piattaforme per avere una qualche possibilità di ottenere una pausa , una semplice interruzione nella saturazione . 
ITALIAN Nel mio paese le compagnie aeree hanno deciso di predisporre alcune navette che inviano tutte le mattine dalle 6.30 alle 8.30, da ciascuna città di provincia francese , una dozzina di aeromobili di piccole dimensioni sulla sola piattaforma parigina . 
ITALIAN E ' forse colpa del controllo aereo se esso nega loro l ' autorizzazione ad atterrare tutte insieme a Parigi ? 
ITALIAN Ecco le principali cause dei ritardi aerei . 
ITALIAN Si deve instaurare il cielo unico tramite la riforma di Eurocontrol e tramite servizi di controllo armonizzati su scala europea . 
ITALIAN Tuttavia mi risulta difficile immaginare che dei servizi di sicurezza collettivi possano essere guidati dal solo profitto sotto il controllo di azionisti e che il cielo unico europeo possa trasformarsi domani in un cielo disuguale tra compagnie aeree . 
ITALIAN Signora Commissario , spero che la Commissione , nel predisporre la futura direttiva sul cielo unico , sappia affrontare tale questione con maggiore imparzialità , globalità e serenità . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , mi faccio portavoce della protesta dei controllori aerei contro il progetto della Commissione europea che , con il riuscito slogan di " cielo unico europeo " , aprirà la strada alla privatizzazione del controllo aereo . 
ITALIAN La relazione parla di ritardi sempre più frequenti . 
ITALIAN Tuttavia in che modo il fatto di sottoporre il controllo aereo alle esigenze del profitto privato potrebbe porre fine ai ritardi ? 
ITALIAN E ' proprio la corsa al profitto delle compagnie aeree che le porta ad effettuare scelte che provocano tali ritardi . 
ITALIAN E ' nell ' interesse degli utenti e della loro sicurezza , così come nell ' interesse dei lavoratori del settore , che il controllo aereo rimanga un servizio pubblico , con la vocazione esclusiva di assicurare il buon svolgimento del traffico aereo . 
ITALIAN La concorrenza , la ricerca del profitto in un settore così delicato quale il controllo aereo condurranno inevitabilmente alla catastrofe . 
ITALIAN Se è necessario metter fine ai particolarismi nazionali in materia di gestione del traffico aereo e se è legittimo unificare lo spazio aereo europeo , lo si deve fare ricusando qualsiasi idea di privatizzazione , di concorrenza e di ricerca di redditività . Pertanto voteremo contro tale relazione . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , mi congratulo con il collega Atkins , del partito conservatore britannico , per l ' eccellente relazione sul cielo unico europeo . 
ITALIAN Essa prova al di là di ogni dubbio che la principale ambizione dell ' Unione europea è quella di formare una nazione unica con un ' unica bandiera nazionale , un unico inno nazionale , uno spazio giuridico unico , confini nazionali unici ; ben presto i cittadini d ' Europa potranno respirare l ' aria unica europea . 
ITALIAN Sir Robert , devo farle le mie congratulazioni : lei ha segnato un punto a favore del movimento degli euroscettici nel Regno Unito . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , non c ' è dubbio che è necessario affrontare con urgenza il problema dei ritardi nel traffico aereo ; tuttavia , non bisogna dimenticare che il 33 percento dei ritardi ATM registrati fra gennaio e giugno 1999 è dipeso soprattutto da temporanee riduzioni di capacità causate non da ultimo dalla crisi del Kosovo . 
ITALIAN Il problema reale è quello dei settori che si estendono a cavallo tra le zone a nord e a sud ( Svizzera , Francia , Italia , Spagna , parti della Germania , nonché lo spazio aereo di alta quota fissato a Maastricht ) , che costituiscono la causa del 44 percento dei ritardi ATM e di 30 strozzature . 
ITALIAN Tuttavia , gli ottimi risultati raggiunti da questo paese dimostrano che , quando un governo nazionale agisce con decisione e autentico spirito di cooperazione , i miglioramenti sono senz ' altro possibili . 
ITALIAN Troppo spesso Eurocontrol viene usato come capro espiatorio ed è accusato di essere la causa dell ' attuale situazione , ma la vera responsabilità ricade sull ' inerzia dei governi nazionali nelle zone che ho appena menzionato . 
ITALIAN E ' evidente che il Consiglio " trasporti " deve agire immediatamente affinché le decisioni inerenti il controllo del traffico aereo siano applicate dagli Stati membri in tutta Europa . 
ITALIAN Non dimentichiamo che Eurocontrol è l ' unica istituzione paneuropea nel campo della gestione del traffico aereo : è quindi necessario sostenerla . 
ITALIAN Infine , i governi nazionali devono affrontare con urgenza una delle questioni sollevate in questa sede : la grave carenza di personale ( 1000 persone circa ) tra i controllori del traffico aereo in tutta Europa . 
ITALIAN La soluzione di questo problema basterebbe da sola a migliorare notevolmente il controllo del traffico . 
ITALIAN Inoltre sia gli aeroporti che le compagnie aeree devono esaminare attentamente le proprie procedure di lavoro , poiché troppo spesso anch ' essi sono responsabili di numerosi ritardi . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , mi permetta di iniziare ringraziando il relatore Atkins per avere agito con determinazione , la Commissione per avere inserito questo tema fra le sue priorità e il Commissario competente , signora De Palacio , per avere avuto il coraggio di passare dalle parole ai fatti . 
ITALIAN Ciò ha fatto sì che in breve tempo la questione di un controllo comune del traffico aereo si sia più che mai avvicinata ad una soluzione . 
ITALIAN Certo , molto ancora resta da fare . 
ITALIAN Non da ultimo , occorre convincere una serie di Stati membri recalcitranti , ma proprio per questo è così importante che il Parlamento europeo dia oggi alla Commissione il suo pieno appoggio per il prosieguo dei lavori . 
ITALIAN L ' evoluzione in corso condurrà al raddoppio del traffico aereo a partire dal 2010 . 
ITALIAN E ' in questa prospettiva che occorre valutare la relazione Atkins e l ' operato della Commissione . 
ITALIAN L ' Unione europea ha dedicato parecchio tempo ed energia all ' abolizione dei confini e alla creazione del mercato interno . 
ITALIAN La relazione contiene un calendario molto stretto . 
ITALIAN Provvediamo insieme affinché l ' estate del 2000 sia l ' ultima all ' insegna del caos nei cieli d ' Europa . 
ITALIAN Con l ' ausilio della relazione Atkins , la Commissione può effettivamente ottenere questo risultato . 
ITALIAN Appena in tempo prima della pausa estiva , quando tutti vanno in vacanza e sempre più persone viaggiano anche in aereo , il Parlamento si occupa oggi della questione del traffico aereo . 
ITALIAN Un tema non piacevole , come sappiamo bene noi e come sanno bene anche tutti gli utenti del trasporto aereo , spesso costretti a subire ritardi di ore e ore , che toccano noi tutti . 
ITALIAN Fa parte ormai della quotidianità degli aeroporti l ' immagine di passeggeri annoiati , nervosi , se non addirittura aggressivi , che riempiono le sale d ' aspetto . 
ITALIAN Noi deputati subiamo questo fenomeno forse più ancora degli altri , ma lo subiscono pure ampi strati della popolazione che utilizzano l ' aereo per le vacanze . 
ITALIAN Vorrei citare un altro aspetto . 
ITALIAN Il problema dei ritardi nei collegamenti aerei ha conseguenze negative non soltanto per i passeggeri che usano l ' aereo per viaggi di lavoro e vengono così a trovarsi in gravi difficoltà personali perché non possono rispettare impegni ed appuntamenti ; il ritardo di un volo comporta anche oneri aggiuntivi sotto forma di spese per il carburante , nonché un maggiore inquinamento ambientale . 
ITALIAN Mi fa pertanto piacere che la Commissione abbia presentato una relazione su questa tematica così importante e che sia stato coinvolto anche il gruppo ad alto livello che si occupa dei problemi e della creazione di uno spazio aereo europeo . 
ITALIAN Gli standard di sicurezza non devono in nessun modo essere messi in pericolo . 
ITALIAN A tale scopo , gli spazi di volo devono essere controllati e tutelati al meglio . 
ITALIAN Eurocontrol deve soddisfare i requisiti di sicurezza , ma noi dobbiamo creare le necessarie condizioni quadro . 
ITALIAN . ( ES ) Signor Presidente , in primo luogo desidero congratularmi con l ' onorevole Atkins per l ' impegno e il lavoro serio e rigoroso svolto in questi mesi e che , come ha detto molto bene il relatore della commissione per l ' industria , onorevole Zimeray , ha richiamato l ' attenzione sulla situazione di frammentazione dello spazio aereo per quanto riguarda sia le frontiere amministrative esistenti sia le frammentazioni tecnologiche , dovute ai diversi sistemi applicati nei vari paesi . 
ITALIAN Detto questo , onorevoli deputati , occorre prendere spunto da quanto sottolineato dalla relazione : l ' incremento del traffico aereo e l ' aumento dei ritardi ; non c ' è nessuno più adatto degli onorevoli parlamentari per testimoniare questa situazione . 
ITALIAN Bisogna dire chiaramente che non tutti i ritardi sono dovuti alla gestione del traffico aereo ; quasi la metà è dovuta alle compagnie aeree , agli aeroporti e , a volte , alle condizioni meteorologiche . 
ITALIAN Tuttavia è vero che vi è un 50 percento o forse poco più di ritardi che è attribuibile a problemi di gestione del traffico aereo . 
ITALIAN Vorrei sottolineare , inoltre , che ciò non significa che i colpevoli siano i controllori di volo . 
ITALIAN Non è un problema attinente ad alcune persone che svolgono un lavoro di grande tensione , estremamente difficile e complesso e che fanno quanto possibile per garantire il massimo livello di sicurezza , che è il problema principale : il massimo livello di sicurezza . 
ITALIAN A volte , i controllori devono svolgere il proprio lavoro con un sovraccarico di voli , con scarsità di personale , il che li obbliga a lavorare più ore del dovuto , nonché con metodi , tecnologie , sussidi tecnologici non sufficientemente sviluppati . 
ITALIAN Desidero chiarire che non è un problema che concerne le persone , cioè i controllori , i qual. insist. svolgono un lavoro magnifico . 
ITALIAN Devo dire loro che è impressionante vederli all ' opera perché essi hanno la responsabilità della vita di tutti i passeggeri che in quel momento si trovano a bordo dell ' aereo . 
ITALIAN A mio giudizi. come sottolinea l ' iniziativa " Cielo unico " , è il sistema di gestione che non funziona , che ci pone dinanzi ad una situazione frammentata , contraddistinta da barriere e frontiere amministrativ. in un ' Unione che è stata in grado di mettere in comune tante cose - , nonché dalle divisioni artificiali tra cielo ad uso militare e cielo ad uso civile che sussistono in molti paesi , quando ormai da tempo abbiamo superato la guerra fredda e che , oltre tutto , non corrispondono alle necessità reali di difesa . 
ITALIAN Infatti , onorevoli deputati , la maggior parte dei voli di difesa ha luogo alle quote basse dello spazio aereo e non a quelle alte . 
ITALIAN Inoltre , queste zone dello spazio aereo vengono utilizzate solo poche ore al giorno , non tutti i giorni e molte di esse solo poche volte all ' anno . 
ITALIAN Onorevoli deputati , si tratta quindi di mettere in comune la zona superiore dello spazio aereo , di gestirla in comun. come suggerito poco fa da un oratore - , dimenticandoci delle frontiere in quella zona superiore dello spazio aereo ; smettendo di parlare di spazio aereo britannico , spagnolo , francese o svedese e parlando semplicemente di spazio aereo europeo in questa zona alta e lasciando la gestione nazionale al di sotto dei 29.500 piedi o dei 31.000 piedi . Questa zona andrà specificata , per quanto in questo caso sorga un altro tipo di problemi e l ' uso militare risulti più chiaro . 
ITALIAN Ad ogni modo , è necessario impostare in maniera flessibile l ' uso civile e militare dello spazio aereo , migliorare l ' efficacia della gestione e fornire ai controllori aerei , che ora , a volte , lavorano in situazioni francamente complesse , un ambiente più facile che consenta loro di svolgere meglio il proprio lavoro . 
ITALIAN Onorevoli deputati , si è parlato di tempi . 
ITALIAN In linea di massima , il gruppo ad alto livello , a cui trasmetterò le conclusioni del Parlamento durante la prossima riunione del 14 luglio , concluderà i lavori entro il mese di ottobre . 
ITALIAN Pertanto le proposte concrete che potranno avere origine in seguito saranno presentate nei mesi successivi e speriamo che per il prossimo Consiglio europeo di primavera , sotto la Presidenza svedese , le proposte concrete siano già state avviate . 
ITALIAN La tabella di marcia è questa . 
ITALIAN L ' iniziativa " Cielo unico " non vuol dire affatto sopprimere Eurocontrol . 
ITALIAN Al contrario , Eurocontrol è assolutamente indispensabile ; è un elemento essenziale che va rafforzato , integrato , dato che nell ' Unione europea è possibile andare oltre l ' ambito di Eurocontrol . 
ITALIAN Su questa base , onorevoli deputati , è necessario parlare di un ente regolatore europeo comune e forte e occorre abbandonare la polemica , secondo me artificiale , tra privatizzazione o non privatizzazione , perché non vi è dubbio che essa non troverebbe mai posto nella comunicazione o nelle proposte della Commissione . 
ITALIAN Non addentriamoci in questo tipo di questioni . 
ITALIAN Non è questo l ' obiettivo dell ' iniziativa . 
ITALIAN Lo potrà fare un paese nell ' ambito delle sue competenze , ma certamente al margine dell ' iniziativa " Cielo unico " . 
ITALIAN Al contrario , questa iniziativa consentirà di garantire un ente regolatore europeo pubblico forte . 
ITALIAN Onorevoli deputati , ringrazio tutti per il lavoro svolto , in particolare il relatore , l ' onorevole Atkins , e mi auguro che tra tutti riusciremo a migliorare la gestione del traffico aereo in uno degli aspetti , non è l ' unico , che riguarda i ritardi . 
ITALIAN Stiamo lavorando anche per risolvere il problema degli slot e altri problemi , ma dobbiamo affrontare una cosa per volta e al momento opportuno . 
ITALIAN La ringrazio , signora Commissario . 
ITALIAN La discussione è chiusa . 
ITALIAN La votazione si svolgerà oggi , alle 12.00 . 
ITALIAN Sicurezza e salute delle lavoratrici gestanti 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , ritengo che lo strumento legislativo , che oggi esaminiamo nella relazione valutativa inviataci dalla Commissione , abbia concluso il suo percorso per quanto concerne i diritti contrattuali e i sistemi di previdenza sociale . 
ITALIAN Questo strumento , che ha apportato vantaggi a migliaia di lavoratrici in numerosi paesi dell ' Unione , è ormai superato . 
ITALIAN E ' superato perché sta per concludersi la revisione della convenzione dell ' OIL che risale al 1952 e ci si attende che la maggior parte dei paesi del mondo migliori sostanzialmente la tutela della maternità . 
ITALIAN Chiaramente si sperav. e si sper. che l ' Unione continui a essere , in questo campo come in altri , socialmente più progredita . 
ITALIAN Di conseguenza , non tutto è superato perché in materia di organizzazione del lavoro la direttiva ha avuto una trasposizione insufficiente e la sua applicazione è stata ancor più inadeguata . 
ITALIAN Nella maggior parte dei paesi non vengono rispettate le tre fasi dell ' organizzazione del posto di lavoro , ossia : cambiamento del posto di lavoro nei posti giudicati pericolosi , cambiamento di lavoratrice e solo dopo rilascio di un congedo di malattia che riduce gli introiti della lavoratrice , nonché le sue aspettative di carriera . 
ITALIAN A titolo esemplificativo , dirò che in alcuni paesi non si rispetta nemmeno il periodo minimo di recupero postnatale , che secondo gli specialisti è di 45 giorni per un parto normale in un posto di lavoro normale . 
ITALIAN Vi sono pertanto paesi che in qualche modo non rispettano queste regole con il pretesto di offrire alle donne un ' alternativa . 
ITALIAN Riteniamo che debba essere garantita alle donne l ' alternativa di avere un buon congedo di maternità , ripartito con il padre , ma il congedo relativo al rischio per la sua salute dev ' essere valutato e garantito . 
ITALIAN D ' altro canto , la valutazione dei rischi in questa direttiva non è collegata con le altre , segnatamente la direttiva quadro sulla valutazione dei rischi e sull ' informazione ai lavoratori . 
ITALIAN Oltre a non essere collegata , fa ricadere sull ' occupazione femminile un anatema ingiusto , ossia che i costi dei rischi per la maternità si applicano esclusivamente alle donne in età fertile . 
ITALIAN Questi costi sono sottovalutati e non devono gravare sul datore di lavoro o costituire un obbligo del datore non appena il medico della lavoratrice lo informa dello stato di quest ' ultima . 
ITALIAN In primo luogo , perché è tardi : i rischi derivanti dalle radiazioni , dagli ambienti chimici e da una postura scorretta sono già stati corsi e possono avere conseguenze nefaste sulla salute della donna e del feto proprio nelle prime settimane . 
ITALIAN In secondo luogo perché non tutelano la capacità riproduttiva di uomini e donne e l ' infertilità ha attualmente una dimensione considerevole nell ' Unione ; infatti oltre l ' 11 percento delle coppie europee ha questo problema , che deriva dallo stile di vita causato dall ' organizzazione economica che abbiamo e anche dal fatto che non si prendono le dovute cautele contro questi pericoli : per fare un esempio , posso citare le temperature estreme che provocano l ' infertilità femminile e maschile . 
ITALIAN Sarebbe opportuno che l ' Unione elaborasse e applicasse delle leggi in questo senso , oggi che è nelle condizioni di poterlo fare . Per quanto riguarda i congedi , siamo a conoscenza dei costi molto più elevati nel caso di assunzione di una donna . 
ITALIAN Sappiamo anche che gli specialisti raccomandano cinque mesi , come minimo , perché il bambino appena nato si senta in una casa protetta dal mondo esterno e , soprattutto , cresca in un ambiente psico - affettivo favorevole , che gli dia l ' equilibrio necessario per svilupparsi con questa sicurezza , perché ha bisogno dei genitori . 
ITALIAN E ' per questo che il congedo dev ' essere esteso a entrambi i progenitori in una condivisione sana . 
ITALIAN Consentitemi di aggiungere che la direttiva deve prendere in considerazione anche l ' economia sommersa e i contratti di lavoro atipici . 
ITALIAN Infine , spero che la Commissione ci dirà che cosa intende fare a questo riguardo , dato che oggi dispone di una base giuridica ampi. gli articoli 13 e 11. che permette di affrontare altri aspetti a cui si fa riferimento nella relazione . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , onorevoli colleghi , la onorevole Damião ha preparato un ' eccellente relazione , nella quale ha ben recepito il parere da me formulato a nome della commissione per i diritti della donna e le pari opportunità . 
ITALIAN Il miglioramento della sicurezza e della tutela della salute sul posto di lavoro di lavoratrici gestanti , puerpere e in periodo di allattamento è di particolare rilevanza per tutti , sia per la donna sia per il nascituro . 
ITALIAN Si tratta di un tema che coinvolge l ' intera società e che va affrontato con la massima cura . 
ITALIAN La relazione della Commissione sulla direttiva del 1992 si occupa soltanto dell ' applicazione concreta della direttiva e non tiene conto delle condizioni del posto di lavoro , che si sono in parte modificate , né del mutato ruolo della donna nella società . 
ITALIAN E ' cambiato , inoltre , il numero delle madri sole , e , infine , non va dimenticato che per le donne l ' obiettivo dell ' indipendenza economica diventa sempre più importante . 
ITALIAN La Commissione deve presentare una proposta di modifica della direttiva che tenga conto di tutti questi cambiamenti , e lo deve fare quanto prima possibile , entro l ' anno in corso . 
ITALIAN Occorre adeguare e migliorare le disposizioni legislative sotto molti aspetti , in particolare introducendo misure preventive a tutela della salute sul posto di lavoro tanto per la madre quanto per il nascituro . 
ITALIAN Bisogna eliminare i fattori di rischio . 
ITALIAN Mansioni nocive alla salute devono essere vietate senza eccezione alcuna . 
ITALIAN Occorre regolamentare gli orari di allattamento e dev ' essere possibile allattare sul posto di lavoro . 
ITALIAN Il congedo post - parto dovrebbe avere una durata minima di otto settimane . 
ITALIAN Inoltre , vanno definite chiaramente due questioni : il sostegno finanziario da concedere sia durante il congedo di gravidanza sia dopo il parto e il reinserimento nel posto di lavoro . 
ITALIAN Tutte queste disposizioni , di cui si avverte la necessità , non devono tuttavia comportare discriminazioni a carico delle donne , né indebolire la loro posizione sul mercato del lavoro . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , onorevoli colleghi , la direttiva 92 / 85 / CEE del Consiglio del 19 ottobre 1992, della cui attuazione stiamo discutendo , è una delle direttive più importanti nel settore della tutela tecnica e sanitaria dei lavoratori . 
ITALIAN Ricordo benissimo la fase preparatoria della direttiva , come pure i problemi affrontati all ' epoca . 
ITALIAN Va valutato positivamente il fatto che in quella occasione , nonostante i contrasti sulla base giuridica , fu riconosciuta l ' importanza della direttiva per le lavoratrici del mercato unico e si compì il primo passo verso la fissazione di standard minimi di tutela delle lavoratrici gestanti e delle giovani madri . 
ITALIAN Per una società , infatti , è molto triste dover constatare che si deve riservare ancora tanta attenzione a questa tematica . 
ITALIAN Appoggio quindi la richiesta di sottoporre quanto prima la direttiva ad una revisione ; credo però che non riusciremo a farlo entro la fine del 2000 . 
ITALIAN Gli emendamenti presentati contengono richieste singole che devono trovare spazio in una proposta di modifica della direttiva . Il gruppo PPE - DE appoggia alcuni di questi emendamenti ; mi riferisco innanzitutto alla richiesta di introdurre un severo divieto di licenziamento durante il congedo di gravidanza e maternità , nonché la garanzia che , alla conclusione del periodo di congedo , le lavoratrici siano reintegrate nel vecchio posto di lavoro o siano assegnate ad uno equiparabile . 
ITALIAN Le violazioni contro tali divieti devono essere sanzionate in maniera efficace . In caso contrario , le donne che vogliono o devono conciliare la professione con la maternità subirebbero una penalizzazione o un ' ingiustificata discriminazione nella loro vita professionale e privata . 
ITALIAN In tale ottica , un ' efficace tutela delle lavoratrici gestanti e delle giovani madri rappresenta uno dei più importanti contributi ad un ' attiva politica a favore della famiglia . 
ITALIAN In considerazione dell ' ampliamento ad est e della tutela esistente in quei paesi , rilevo che non è ammissibile che il mercato unico abbia conseguenze negative per la tutela delle gestanti e delle giovani madri . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , signora Commissario , innanzitutto un ringraziamento alla relatrice per il lavoro approfondito , serio e senza reticenze fatto con questa relazione . 
ITALIAN Parliamo di un tema molto sensibile che ha strette relazioni con problemi che periodicamente vengono evocati : l ' invecchiamento della popolazione , l ' andamento demografico , il basso tasso di natalità , il diritto alla salute , il diritto al lavoro , il diritto alla maternità , il valore sociale della maternità , che non può restare solo un problema individuale della donna ma deve trovare tutela e sostegno nella società . 
ITALIAN La direttiva del 1992, di cui valutiamo oggi l ' applicazione negli Stati membri , ha proprio l ' obiettivo di stabilire misure minime per promuovere il miglioramento della sicurezza e della salute sul lavoro delle lavoratrici gestanti e puerpere in periodo di allattamento . 
ITALIAN La relazione di valutazione della Commissione dimostra che la direttiva si è dimostrata utile , ha portato alcuni vantaggi in taluni Stati membri su alcuni aspetti del problema , quali congedi per motivi di salute e sicurezza , eccetera . A parte però queste considerazioni di carattere generale , noi condividiamo il giudizio critico della relatrice sulla relazione della Commissione . 
ITALIAN E ' una relazione presentata in ritardo rispetto ai tempi stabiliti e che si sofferma quasi esclusivamente sugli aspetti del recepimento a livello giuridico e tecnico . 
ITALIAN E ' mancat. ci sembr. un serio controllo da parte della Commissione ; è mancato un coordinamento fra la direzione salute e sicurezza e quella delle pari opportunità ed è venuta alla luce l ' ambiguità che , da questo punto di vista , la direttiva stessa presenta . 
ITALIAN Il ritardo di un rapporto di valutazion. ricordo che proprio per i bassi standard minimi previsti si ottenne il consenso dell ' Italia solo in cambio dell ' impegno di una rapida verific. avrebbe dovuto portare ad una proposta , da parte della Commissione , di una revisione della direttiva , particolarmente su alcuni aspetti che vengono richiamati dalla relatrice : la durata del congedo di maternità , il prolungamento del congedo di maternità in situazioni di rischio , una definizione più precisa del concetto di indennità adeguata , il divieto di licenziamento durante la gravidanza e il congedo di maternità con sanzioni efficaci , il divieto di qualsiasi discriminazione per quanto attiene ai percorsi professionali e al miglioramento delle condizioni di lavoro , la messa in atto di tutte le misure necessarie , atte a tutelare la salute e la sicurezza della donna e del feto , senza pregiudizio per il diritto al lavoro e al percorso professionale , favorire l ' allattamento al seno attraverso misure diversificate . 
ITALIAN Pur tenendo conto di tutte le compatibilità necessarie , ciò che dovrebbe ispirare la Commissione e gli Stati membri , nella revisione della direttiva , è il principio di non discriminazione e il riconoscimento della maternità e della paternità quali diritti fondamentali , essenziali all ' equilibrio della società . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , è importante che alle donne durante la gravidanza e il parto siano assicurate serenità e sicurezza , affinché la madre e il bambino inizino la nuova vita con il piede giusto , ed è importante che la gravidanza e la maternità non riducano le possibilità delle donne sul mercato del lavoro . 
ITALIAN Abbiamo una direttiva del 1992 che stabilisce i diritti minimi in materia di congedi di maternità e il diritto ad un ' indennità per le donne mentre sono lontane dal mercato del lavoro per maternità . 
ITALIAN La Commissione ha esaminato la trasposizione della direttiva negli Stati membri e nella relazione la onorevole Damião segnala , a ragione , che il documento della Commissione offre solo un sommario tecnico e fattuale del recepimento della direttiva e non valuta se la direttiva nella pratica assicuri alle gestanti o alle puerpere condizioni migliori . 
ITALIAN Per questo la relatrice ritiene che il documento della Commissione non rappresenti una base sufficiente su cui effettuare una revisione della direttiva . 
ITALIAN Sono d ' accordo con la relatrice . 
ITALIAN Per questo , non sono favorevole a sollecitare una revisione della direttiva adesso . 
ITALIAN Non credo che dovremmo chiedere una proposta di una nuova direttiva che contenga il diritto al prolungamento del congedo di maternità e l ' estensione del congedo obbligatorio e che stabilisca requisiti più precisi in merito all ' indennità non tenendo conto in misura sufficiente delle differenze tra i sistemi sociali degli Stati membri . 
ITALIAN Le norme attuali prevedono una grande flessibilità e la maggior parte dei paesi garantisce alle donne condizioni migliori di quelle previste dalla normativa comunitaria . 
ITALIAN Ci si può chiedere se nuove norme possano avere un grande impatto a livello pratico . 
ITALIAN In ogni caso , il congedo di maternità e l ' aiuto economico fanno parte di priorità che devono essere definite nei singoli paesi . 
ITALIAN Ritengo invece che sarebbe positivo avere un ' immagine più chiara delle condizioni esistenti nei vari paesi , affinché i governi possano imparare dalle esperienze positive e negative degli altri ed ispirarsi a vicenda . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , onorevoli colleghi , alla fine del 2000 la Commissione europea deve presentare una proposta di direttiva sulle misure relative alle lavoratrici gestanti , puerpere o in periodo di allattamento . 
ITALIAN La valutazione delle misure esistenti giunge con quattro anni di ritardo e non soddisfa ai requisiti posti all ' epoca dal Parlamento europeo ; inoltre non va dimenticato che tale valutazione era mirata a portare ad una modifica . 
ITALIAN Il gruppo Verts / ALE vuole che la tutela venga ampliata . 
ITALIAN Nella relazione vengono citati soprattutto aspetti istituzionali . 
ITALIAN Si chiede un ampliamento dei diritti delle lavoratrici gestanti o in periodo di allattamento . 
ITALIAN Nella realtà pratica infatti spesso le donne vengono discriminate durante quel periodo malgrado i diritti teorici di cui godono . 
ITALIAN Pertanto chiediamo l ' inversione dell ' onere della prova . 
ITALIAN Sarà il datore di lavoro a dover dimostrare che un licenziamento o un trasferimento non sono conseguenti alla gravidanza . 
ITALIAN Infine esortiamo la Commissione a spiegare perché , in occasione dell ' ultima riunione dell ' ILO , gli Stati membri non abbiano adottato i pareri comuni . 
ITALIAN Com ' è possibile che il Regno Unito si sia astenuto durante la votazione finale , il che , vista la procedura , equivale ad un voto contrario ? 
ITALIAN Infine ringrazio la onorevole Damião per il lavoro svolto . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , in un momento in cui l ' Europa sottolinea , nella riunione di Pechino + 5 a New York , il proprio ruolo di pioniere nell ' attuazione del principio di eguaglianza tra uomini e donne , pare altrettanto importante garantire la loro libertà . 
ITALIAN Tale libertà passa attraverso un diritto di tutela specifico delle donne , diritto sempre legato al loro corpo , in particolar modo alla maternità , più precisamente alla gravidanza . 
ITALIAN Ci congratuliamo con la onorevole Damião per l ' ottima relazione che evidenzia l ' urgenza di rivedere la direttiva del 1992 . 
ITALIAN La sua richiesta di formale divieto di licenziamento durante la gravidanza è fondamentale e mi soffermerei unicamente su tale punto . 
ITALIAN Mi pare pericoloso lasciare al datore di lavoro un margine di manovra , che egli saprà sempre utilizzare a proprio vantaggio . 
ITALIAN Oggi , con la revisione della Convenzione 103, l ' OIL livella al basso la tutela delle lavoratrici gestanti , accettando alcuni licenziamenti detti senza nesso con la gravidanza . 
ITALIAN L ' Europa , con la relazione della onorevole Damião e la revisione della direttiva , ha il dovere di porsi come riferimento politico per i diritti delle donne del mondo intero . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , onorevoli colleghi , desidero innanzitutto rallegrarmi con la nostra collega , la onorevole Elisa Damião , per lo straodinario lavoro da lei eseguito con questa relazione , alla quale abbiamo dato il nostro contributo in commissione , non soltanto appoggiandola totalmente ma anche introducendo alcune rettifiche che sono state in seguito accolte nella versione finale . 
ITALIAN Consideriamo l ' approvazione di questa relazione un momento importante nell ' ambito di questa sessione legislativa per quattro ragioni fondamentali : 
ITALIAN in primo luogo , perché riteniamo inaccettabile che la donna sia socialmente danneggiata o discriminata a causa della gravidanza e della maternità ; 
ITALIAN in secondo luogo , perché è necessario che ci dedichiamo con vigore ai problemi dei rischi per la salute della madre e del bambino che derivano dalle condizioni di lavoro ; 
ITALIAN in terzo luogo , perché nella società moderna è sempre più importante , per quelli che , come noi , si preoccupano della realtà delle persone , riuscire a conciliare la vita personale con la vita professionale , la famiglia con il lavoro , e il settore in questione è proprio uno dei più importanti in cui tale conciliazione deve essere operata in modo responsabile ; 
ITALIAN infine , perché le politiche per la maternità devono essere coerenti con le politiche per la famiglia e per la natalità in generale , ma particolarmente in un momento in cui l ' invecchiamento della popolazione europea richiama la crescente attenzione degli Stati membri su questo tema . 
ITALIAN In questa sede discuteremo anche alcune modifiche . La nostra posizione si ispirerà all ' equilibrio che riteniamo sia stato raggiunto nella relazione . 
ITALIAN Ciononostante , non le appoggeremo tutte perché riteniamo che l ' equilibrio raggiunto nella relazione sia migliore di alcuni brani suggeriti nelle modifiche . 
ITALIAN Sosterremo le modifiche suggerite dai nostri colleghi conservatori britannici , del nostro collega Bushill - Matthews , che richiama l ' attenzione sulla questione delle piccole e medie imprese , che crediamo debbano essere prese in considerazione nella regolamentazione , sia a livello comunitario che a livello nazionale . 
ITALIAN Tuttavia , in compenso , gradiremmo che i conservatori britannici appoggiassero la relazione perché , se è vero che alcune conclusioni della Presidenza portoghese richiamano l ' attenzione su questo , desidero sottolineare che nel testo finale del Consiglio di Feira , paragrafo 36, si evidenzia l ' importanza della responsabilità sociale delle imprese . 
ITALIAN E questo , per noi , democratici cristiani e conservatori portoghesi , è un tema molto importante : pensiamo che le imprese abbiano una responsabilità sociale . 
ITALIAN Mi rimane da aggiungere che vorremmo che alcune votazioni venissero fatte separatamente per migliorare la relazione laddove si immagina che saranno inserite alcune cose non pertinenti . 
ITALIAN Non pensiamo che la gravidanza sia una risorsa sociale , e c ' è anche un altro punto per il quale desidereremmo che la votazione fosse fatta separatamente , sempre allo scopo di migliorare la relazione . 
ITALIAN Infine , faccio appello a tutti i democratici cristiani affinché appoggino la relazione della mia collega socialista . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , desidero manifestare il mio disappunto per l ' inerzia dimostrata dalla Commissione che fino a oggi non ha preso nessuna posizione in merito alla revisione , valutazione e diffusione della direttiva 92 / 85 sulla tutela della maternità . 
ITALIAN Al di là di tutto , al di là dei notevoli danni per la donna - madre derivanti da questa omissione , non tutti i mali vengono per nuocere e la relazione , brillantemente redatta dalla collega Damião , ne è un esempio , poiché ha permesso al Parlamento europeo di poter andare oltre . 
ITALIAN La relazione chiarisce concetti , armonizza norme a livello comunitario , crea responsabilità ripartite , tiene conto dei nuovi rischi derivanti all ' attuale organizzazione del lavoro , fornisce incentivi all ' aumento demografico in un ' Europa invecchiata e considera la gravidanza uno stato naturale della madre che va rispettato e protetto . 
ITALIAN Esplicita i diritti delle lavoratrici indipendenti e impegnate nel telelavoro e mette in risalto le crescenti preoccupazioni per i casi di monoparentalità che hanno sempre maggiore rilevanza nel panorama europeo . 
ITALIAN L ' obiettivo del prolungamento del congedo di maternità a venti settimane è un obiettivo ambizioso e tecnicamente raccomandato , che deve essere messo in pratica in maniera graduale e per il quale ci dobbiamo preparare sotto il profilo economico , ripartendo le responsabilità in modo solidale tra gli Stati , i datori di lavoro e i lavoratori . 
ITALIAN Per conseguire i fini proposti è inoltre essenziale incentivare maggiormente il dialogo , l ' interconnessione e l ' articolazione tra operatori sanitari e quelli dell ' igiene e della sicurezza sul lavoro al fine di ottenere un miglior ambiente di lavoro per la donna gravida . 
ITALIAN Per quanto riguarda i paesi candidati , l ' Unione europea deve impegnarsi per ottenere la loro solidarietà in modo da svolgere nei loro confronti una rapida opera di sensibilizzazione in merito all ' adozione delle misure previste in questa relazione , poiché è lì che le resistenze potranno essere maggiori e di difficile risoluzione . 
ITALIAN In conclusione , intendo lanciare un segnale d ' allarme per quanto concerne il punto 9 della relazione , visto che le misure che proteggono le donne durante la maternità , quali i congedi postnatali molto lunghi , possono avere effetti perversi in quanto i datori di lavoro cominciano ad avere degli svantaggi nell ' assumere donne e preferiscono impiegare uomini . 
ITALIAN La Commissione deve pertanto mettere in pratica un sistema di individuazione delle frodi e di applicazione di pene severe per le imprese nei casi di discriminazione di questo tipo . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , adottare una direttiva non significa necessariamente che la realtà diventa come noi vogliamo . 
ITALIAN Questo ne è un chiaro esempio . 
ITALIAN Secondo la valutazione della Commissione , la situazione in termini di sicurezza e salute delle gestanti è positiva . Tutto ciò viene però dimostrato solo sulla carta , ma le cose stanno davvero così ? 
ITALIAN Non ne sono certa . 
ITALIAN Il ritmo sul mercato del lavoro è più serrato di quanto non lo sia mai stato , si richiede un ' efficienza elevata , le donne devono lavorare come se non fossero incinte anche se lo sono . 
ITALIAN Questo provoca stress ed è nocivo sia per la madre che il per feto . 
ITALIAN Lo sappiamo perché è dimostrato dagli studi effettuati . 
ITALIAN Il Parlamento europeo , in quanto legislatore , e noi come rappresentanti della popolazione abbiamo il diritto di sapere se la legislazione che adottiamo funzioni nella realtà . 
ITALIAN Ritengo che questo sia un esempio del fatto che la Commissione dà troppa poca importanza a questo settore . 
ITALIAN Per questo il messaggio dal Parlamento alla Commissione deve essere il seguente : il lavoro effettuato è insufficiente . 
ITALIAN Dobbiamo sapere se la legislazione funziona . 
ITALIAN Le analisi meramente giuridiche della Commissione dimostrano già che occorre una maggiore protezione . 
ITALIAN Credo che ci sia una maggiore esigenza di sapere che cosa sia effettivamente un ' indennità adeguata e ci devono essere norme più severe contro i licenziamenti durante la gravidanza . 
ITALIAN Il modello sociale europeo è caratterizzato dalla presenza di un elevato livello di protezione . 
ITALIAN Deve essere un settor. e lo dico rivolgendomi gruppo ELDR che ha assunto una posizione molto divers. nel quale l ' Unione europea deve esercitare una forte influenza . 
ITALIAN L ' azione non deve essere delegata ai singoli Stati membri . 
ITALIAN La partecipazione delle donne al mercato del lavoro è un presupposto necessario per realizzare gli obiettivi ambiziosi che ci siamo prefissi in materia di occupazione e modernizzazione del modello sociale europeo . 
ITALIAN Per questo , la modernizzazione e l ' impegno in tale settore sono fondamentali e non possono essere delegati agli Stati membri : è l ' Europa che deve occuparsene . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , molte donne sono oggi discriminate sul posto di lavoro . 
ITALIAN Sappiamo che molte vengono licenziate quando rimangono incinte . 
ITALIAN Questo è totalmente inammissibile ! 
ITALIAN La relazione Damião contiene molte buone proposte , ma noi liberali svedesi avanziamo alcune riserve di principio sulla relazione . 
ITALIAN All ' oratore che mi ha appena preceduto desidero dire che il Parlamento dovrebbe porsi più spesso l ' interrogativo : di che cosa deve occuparsi un Parlamento europeo ? 
ITALIAN A quale livello di dettaglio è opportuno scendere ? 
ITALIAN Noi crediamo al principio di sussidiarietà , ossia al concetto che le decisioni vadano prese il più possibile vicino alle persone interessate . 
ITALIAN La politica sociale è un settore in cui l ' Unione europea dovrebbe avere competenze limitate , tranne quando si parla di libera circolazione dei cittadini all ' interno dell ' Unione . 
ITALIAN Ogni Stato membro dovrebbe essere pienamente responsabile e avere il pieno diritto di decidere del rispettivo Stato sociale . 
ITALIAN Noi non crediamo in una dettagliata legislazione comune europea in campo sociale . 
ITALIAN Ciò non impedisce che gli Stati membri possano coordinarsi e scambiare idee in ambito sociale . 
ITALIAN Nella relazione Damião sono prese in esame alcune legittime rivendicazioni per una migliore sicurezza delle lavoratrici di tutta Europa , per una migliore mobilità e per un mercato interno meglio funzionante , e viene altresì rivendicato il diritto all ' autodeterminazione per quanto riguarda i dettagli delle varie politiche sociali nazionali . 
ITALIAN A tale riguardo , la relazione è squilibrata . 
ITALIAN La mia domanda conclusiva è : perché il Parlamento europeo dovrebbe decidere che ogni donna , in tutta Europa , debba prendersi otto settimane di permesso dopo il parto ? 
ITALIAN Conosco diverse donne che sono volute tornare al lavoro prima di questo termine . La libertà di scelta va tutelata . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , è giusta la critica che la onorevole Damião , autrice di questa relazione , muove nei confronti della Commissione per il ritardo registrato nel processo di revisione della direttiva in questione . 
ITALIAN E ' positivo che la relazione lamenti il fatto che la Commissione non abbia rispettato il calendario definito dalla direttiva e che non sia stata effettuata la valutazione di efficacia della sua pratica , ponendo l ' accento sulla necessità di una proposta per la revisione urgente , per la quale suggerisce l ' introduzione di varie misure , che essenzialmente appoggiamo e con le quali siamo d ' accordo . 
ITALIAN In linea di massima tutte le proposte sono state accettate , ad eccezione di quella che si riferiva al pagamento dell ' indennità durante la sospensione dell ' attività e del congedo di maternità , che dovrebbe corrispondere al 100 per cento del salario precedente ed essere preso in considerazione per effetto dell ' acquisizione dei diritti pensionistici . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , se l ' intento della Commissione sull ' argomento era quello di migliorare effettivamente la sicurezza e la salute delle lavoratrici gestanti o puerpere , possiamo dire che essa non ha centrato il suo scopo . 
ITALIAN Sono due , infatti , le evidenti lacune della sua relazione : la tardività e la limitazione . 
ITALIAN La relazione avrebbe dovuto trovare luce già nel 1997 ma , se pur tardiva , avrebbe dovuto almeno porre rimedio alla formulazione poco chiara di alcuni articoli della direttiva , nonché definire i tanti , indeterminati concetti che hanno suscitato molteplici interpretazioni ; senza parlare , tra i vari dati utili assenti , delle risultanze dei questionari inviati agli Stati membri , nonché dei risultati del coordinamento legislativo e delle attività in merito da parte del Centro europeo di normalizzazione . 
ITALIAN Già nel 1992, il Parlamento europeo riteneva necessaria la revisione di quella direttiva , perciò oggi , data la necessità di un ' economia sociale di mercato , sono condivisi gli obiettivi della relazione della collega Damião : legare le politiche per la maternità alla politica della famiglia ed eliminare le indeterminazioni dando un concreto , quantificato miglioramento ai diritti delle lavoratrici gestanti e puerpere . 
ITALIAN La gravidanza è uno stato naturale della donna che la società deve rispettare , salvaguardare e proteggere . 
ITALIAN L ' inserimento della donna nel mondo del lavoro è una realtà irreversibile e le donne non devono essere messe nella situazione di dover scegliere tra avere figli o mantenere il posto di lavoro a causa delle complicazioni a cui una gravidanza potrebbe dar luogo . 
ITALIAN L ' invecchiamento della popolazione , unito al basso tasso di natalità nell ' Unione europea , fa sì che questo sia un argomento di enorme importanza per tutte le parti sociali . 
ITALIAN Tanto importante quanto la tutela della donna gestante è agevolare l ' allattamento materno , che va a beneficio della salute sia della madre sia del bambino . 
ITALIAN Proteggere la maternità e l ' allattamento materno non può essere considerata una disparità di trattamento tra uomini e donne , dato che la maternità è esclusiva delle donne ed è la donna che va protetta , indipendentemente dal fatto che anche gli uomini possano beneficiare del congedo di paternità . 
ITALIAN Gli Stati membri devono accogliere gli eventuali effetti negativi della direttiva facilitando per gli imprenditori l ' assunzione di donne giovani ed esonerandoli dal pagamento degli oneri sociali durante il congedo di maternità . 
ITALIAN La direttiva deve includere un permesso minimo di 20 settimane , con un periodo obbligatorio di almeno otto settimane dopo il parto . 
ITALIAN Va garantito uno stipendio minimo pari all ' 80 percento dello stipendio precedente senza alcuna perdita dei diritti pensionistici . 
ITALIAN Il divieto di licenziamento durante la gravidanza dev ' essere osservato in modo rigoroso . 
ITALIAN La gravidanza non dev ' essere in nessun caso motivo di discriminazione nei confronti della donna . 
ITALIAN Inoltre riteniamo che questa mancanza normativa favorisca un fenomeno molto grave che si sta verificando fra i giovani , vale a dire la rinuncia alla maternità . 
ITALIAN Chiediamo alla Commissione che , prima della fine del 2000, presenti una proposta di modifica della direttiva 92 / 85 / CEE e che tale direttiva possa essere applicata a tutte le lavoratrici gestanti , in tutti i campi e mansioni , senza eccezioni né condizioni . 
ITALIAN La nuova normativa deve essere chiara e innovativa . 
ITALIAN Deve contemplare i casi di nuove situazioni lavorative e anche la nuova situazione familiare costituita dalle famiglie monoparentali . 
ITALIAN La lavoratrice gestante deve poter disporre di una tutela adeguata , specifica per il suo stato , ma questo non deve implicare alcuna discriminazione né riduzione delle sue opportunità di accesso al posto di lavoro , anzi . 
ITALIAN Dobbiamo essere in grado di mettere a disposizione i mezzi adeguati affinché il periodo di allattamento sia compatibile con il lavoro . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , oggigiorno , nell ' Europa di oggi , non è possibile che le donne si trovino a rinunciare a un ' occupazione e ancor meno alla maternità . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , nella relazione della Commissione , che ho letto con grande attenzione , si legge : " in linea generale la direttiva 92 / 85 / CEE è stata adeguatamente applicata dagli Stati membri , come dimostra lo scarso numero di denunce per violazioni dei diritti delle lavoratrici gestanti pervenute alla Commissione " . 
ITALIAN La relatrice però ha ignorato queste osservazioni , considerandole irrilevanti e affermando invece che la direttiva originaria non era abbastanza audace . 
ITALIAN Innanzitutto la relazione intende armonizzare la politica sociale in tutta l ' Unione europea , anziché lasciare agli Stati membri il compito di definirne i dettagl. questo particolare è stato sottolineato con grande vigore dall ' onorevole Olle Schmidt nell ' odierno dibattito . 
ITALIAN In secondo luogo la relazione vorrebbe migliorare le condizioni occupazionali delle lavoratrici gestanti e puerpere con la concessione di congedi di maternità supplementari e salari minimi garantiti : né l ' una né l ' altra di queste proposte rientrano nel campo della salute e della sicurezza ; la relatrice propone soluzioni ad un problema che non riguarda né la salute né la sicurezza . 
ITALIAN Come conservatori britannici confermiamo il nostro impegno a favore della salute e della sicurezza di tutti i lavoratori , con speciale riguardo per le categorie più vulnerabili , e ci dichiariamo ancora una volta fautori della sussidiarietà in materia di condizioni occupazionali . 
ITALIAN Ribadiamo però la nostra volontà di aiutare un numero sempre maggiore di donne a entrare nel mondo del lavoro , senza erigere invece ulteriori barriere all ' occupazione femminile . 
ITALIAN Invitiamo quindi l ' Assemblea a respingere la relazione . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , il testo è importante nella misura in cui la legislazione interessata ha ripercussioni non trascurabili sul benessere delle donne e dei bambini , vale a dire sul futuro della nostra società . 
ITALIAN E ' sorprendente che la Commissione abbia atteso così a lungo prima di presentare al Parlamento la relazione di valutazione sull ' applicazione della direttiva e alcune proposte volte a migliorare le condizioni di accesso al congedo di maternità . 
ITALIAN Ho l ' impressione che , nella proposta di revisione della direttiva che chiediamo alla Commissione di presentare rapidamente , sia essenziale preservare la realtà di tre principi fondamentali per la donna ed il suo sviluppo : il divieto di licenziamento durante la gravidanza o il congedo di maternità , il diritto ad un congedo minimo obbligatorio remunerato e la contabilizzazione ai fini pensionistici di tale congedo . 
ITALIAN Mi pare peraltro che la nuova direttiva dovrebbe comportare sostanziali miglioramenti , in modo particolare la possibilità offerta a tutte le donne di beneficiare di un congedo di maternità di venti settimane , senza obbligo di usufruirne integralmente , ma con l ' obbligo per il datore di lavoro di proporlo e con un obbligo minimo di otto settimane dopo il parto per favorire lo sviluppo del legame madre - figlio . 
ITALIAN Per quanto riguarda le gravidanze a rischio e la nascita di bambini disabili , è evidente che andranno elaborate proposte che prevedano , tenuto conto delle specificità , una maggiore durata del periodo di astensione per maternità . 
ITALIAN In merito alla definizione dell ' importo , sembra che la cifra da prendere in considerazione debba corrispondere quanto meno all ' 80 percento della retribuzione precedente , compresa la maturazione dei diritti pensionistici . 
ITALIAN E ' infine auspicabile che il testo rafforzi contemporaneamente il divieto formale di licenziamento durante la gravidanza ed il congedo di maternità . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , mi complimento con la relatrice per il lavoro svolto a salvaguardia della donna in un momento particolare della sua vita , quale quello della gravidanza e della maternità . 
ITALIAN In un momento , poi , in cui l ' Europa presenta problemi demografici , è necessario che le Istituzioni diano un segnale forte nel rassicurare le donne che lavorano , le quali devono avere la serenità sufficiente e le garanzie necessarie per scegliere di essere madri . 
ITALIAN Ecco perché è necessario disporre di un periodo adeguato di astensione dal lavoro prima del parto e ancor più dopo , in presenza di un bambino da allattare , da crescere e da educare . 
ITALIAN L ' indennità quindi in questo periodo non deve subire particolari decurtazioni e tanto meno può soffrire il trattamento pensionistico . 
ITALIAN Aggiungo che , nella fattispecie , vanno garantite anche le lavoratrici autonome mediante un diritto all ' indennità , la cui copertura è da costituirsi con fondi nazionali settoriali a base contributiva . 
ITALIAN Esprimo , infine , il mio accordo nel sostenere il divieto di licenziamento della donna durante questo periodo , unitamente al fatto che i costi derivanti dalle indennità destinate a una lavoratrice in maternità non gravino direttamente sull ' azienda privata ove essa lavora , ma siano assunti per intero dall ' istituzione pubblica , e ciò al fine di evitare penalizzazioni della donna sul mercato del lavoro e fatti discriminatori . 
ITALIAN Onorevoli deputati , vi chiedo di fare silenzio , non pretendo un religioso silenzio , ma il silenzio che si conviene a questa sede per poter ascoltare con attenzione il Commissario , signora De Palacio . 
ITALIAN -- ( ES ) Signor Presidente , in primo luogo desidero ringraziare la onorevole Damião per la bellissima relazione che ha presentato , anche se contiene una serie di critiche nei confronti del lavoro della Commissione . 
ITALIAN Ritengo di dover accettare le critiche in quanto sono certa che si basano su fatti concreti . 
ITALIAN Ritengo anche , però , di dover dare una giustificazione e una spiegazione . 
ITALIAN Per preparare il suo testo , la Commissione ha dovuto basarsi sulla documentazione fornita dai diversi Stati e , purtroppo , tale documentazione non è stata consegnata con la celerità e la disponibilità che la Commissione si aspettava . 
ITALIAN Questo spiega il ritardo con cui la relazione è stata pubblicata . 
ITALIAN La legislazione comunitaria e la giurisprudenza della Corte di giustizia europea non offrono ancora una struttura sufficiente anche se , senza dubbio , costituiscono elementi chiave per poter continuare a progredire in questo aspetto essenziale della garanzia dei diritti alle lavoratrici gestanti . 
ITALIAN Riteniamo che adesso , dopo il Trattato , potremo spingerci ancora più in là e fare qualche passo avanti . 
ITALIAN Questo è quello che ci proponiamo e per questo prepareremo una relazione complementare sull ' applicazione di questa direttiva , che verrà presentata nel 2002 . 
ITALIAN Come ben sapete , onorevoli deputati , la settimana scorsa la Commissione ha approvato la nuova agenda sulla politica sociale per il periodo 2000 - 2005 ed è in questo ambito che speriamo di dare una soluzione adeguata , non solo a questo problema concreto , ma anche a tutta una serie di altre questioni . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , questa è l ' ultima volta nel corso della settimana in cui siamo presenti in gran numero in quest ' Aula . 
ITALIAN Desidero richiamare l ' attenzione sua e degli onorevoli colleghi su un fatto alquanto spiacevole . 
ITALIAN Il Parlamento gode di un ' ottima reputazione presso la stampa , perché è riuscito per vent ' anni a emettere due volte al giorno un comunicato destinato alla stampa scritta . 
ITALIAN Ho appena verificato come ha funzionato questa settimana . 
ITALIAN Il comunicato stampa relativo alla commemorazione dell ' ex Presidente Pflimlin è stato divulgato appena alle 23.22 di lunedì . 
ITALIAN La relazione sul Vertice di Feira è stata resa pubblica martedì mattina . La relazione sulla seduta in materia di discarico di martedì mattina è stata pubblicata alle 21.12. La relazione sullo Zimbabwe di martedì pomeriggio è stata divulgata alle 22.55. La relazione sulla BCE di mercoledì mattina è stata diffusa alle 20.00 di quello stesso giorno . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , la invito a ripristinare il vecchio sistema e a far sì che le relazioni e i comunicati stampa quotidiani non solo vengano pubblicati per tempo , ma forniscano anche una panoramica completa e decentrata in base alla lingua . 
ITALIAN La esorto a chiedere all ' Ufficio di presidenza di riflettere seriamente al riguardo e di ritornare su una decisione assunta in precedenza . 
ITALIAN Onorevole collega , le sue osservazioni saranno naturalmente comunicate ai nostri servizi , in modo che possiamo fare il nostro lavoro nel miglior modo possibile . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , un richiamo al Regolamento . So benissimo che l ' ordine del giorno prevede un gran numero di votazioni , e mi dispiace di ritardare i lavori del Parlamento . 
ITALIAN Ho appena scoperto però che la votazione sulla mia relazione sarà l ' ultima ; vorrei dire che non sono stato consultato in proposito . 
ITALIAN Anzi , in precedenza ho fatto notare che la votazione dovrebbe aver luogo quanto prima , visto che ho un unico volo per tornare a cas. ed essendo un esperto del settore dell ' aviazione , sono consapevole più di chiunque altro del problema . 
ITALIAN Mi trovo perciò bloccato qui . 
ITALIAN Mi affido alla clemenza dell ' Assemblea : sarebbe possibile anticipare la votazione sulla relazione Atkins ? 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , nel caso lei accolga la richiesta del collega , propongo che almeno l ' ordine di votazione sia fissato così come deciso ieri . 
ITALIAN Sarebbe un ' altra cosa ! 
ITALIAN C ' è un determinato ordine di votazione , che seguirò , e mi dispiace se alcune di queste relazioni non saranno votate stamattina ma nel pomeriggio . 
ITALIAN Passiamo ora alle votazioni . 
ITALIAN VOTAZIONI 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , come ha già rilevato , la votazione riguarda proposte di compromesso che sono state definite nell ' ambito di una concertazione informale con la Commissione . 
ITALIAN Il 16 maggio abbiamo rinviato la relazione , alla quale nel frattempo abbiamo apportato miglioramenti . 
ITALIAN Con questa procedura , il Parlamento ha dimostrato nuovamente alla Commissione la propria volontà di avere pieno potere di codecisione anche a livello di commissione per l ' agricoltura e nel settore agricolo e proprio la procedura seguita in questa vicenda ci ha permesso di ottenere ciò che volevamo . 
ITALIAN Ringrazio la Commissione per la collaborazione ed esprimo l ' auspicio che la Commissione difenda ora di fronte al Consiglio i compromessi raggiunti , in modo che essi possano essere respinti soltanto all ' unanimità . 
ITALIAN La Commissione e il Parlamento , agendo di comune intesa , hanno conquistato una posizione di forza e mi auguro che questa esperienza possa fungere da esempio anche per la Conferenza intergovernativa di Nizza . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , signora Commissario , onorevoli colleghi , desidero esprimere la mia sincera e sentita gratitudine non solo alla Commissione , ma anche a tutti i collaboratori e a tutti i colleghi della commissione per l ' agricoltura per essere riusciti a raggiungere insieme questo compromesso . 
ITALIAN Vi chiedo di approvare oggi il dossier poiché , in caso contrario , il Consiglio del 16 e 17 luglio sarebbe nella condizione di prendere una decisione in assenza di un parere del Parlamento , non avendo noi tenuto fede , secondo una sentenza della Corte di giustizia europea , al nostro dovere di collaborare in modo leale e disponibile . 
ITALIAN Per questo motivo vi invito ad approvare oggi il dossier in esame . 
ITALIAN Rinnovo i miei ringraziamenti per la collaborazione . 
ITALIAN Signora Commissario , vuole rispondere alla domanda del collega ? 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , onorevoli deputati , farò alcune brevi osservazioni . 
ITALIAN Peraltro , la Commissione nutre alcune riserve sulla formulazione legislativa e sull ' inserimento degli emendamenti nel testo , mentre per quanto concerne il contenuto la Commissione appoggerà senz ' altro le proposte di compromesso durante la discussione con il Consiglio . In merito all ' emendamento n . 
ITALIAN 46, vorrei rilevare che i trasferimenti volontari di quote da uno Stato membro ad un altro possono essere eseguiti una volta soltanto , poiché altrimenti si verificherebbero facilmente distorsioni nel sistema di ripartizione . Riguardo all ' emendamento n . 
ITALIAN 51, la Commissione prende atto della preoccupazione manifestata dalla commissione sul livello degli aiuti per la coltivazione di piante a fibra lunga ; nel contempo , però , non può che far presente ancora una volta che le possibilità di valutazione sono limitate se si chiede la presentazione di una relazione già dopo il primo anno della riforma . 
ITALIAN Infine , a nome del mio collega Commissario Fischler e della Commissione tutta desidero ringraziare il Parlamento per la collaborazione . 
ITALIAN Ritengo che le proposte di compromesso che sono state elaborate abbiano contribuito non solo ad un miglioramento , ma anche e soprattutto all ' ulteriore sviluppo di questo dossier . 
ITALIAN ( Il Parlamento approva la risoluzione legislativa ) 
ITALIAN Relazione senza discussione ( A5 - 0182 / 2000 ) dell ' onorevole Stauner a nome della commissione per l ' occupazione e gli affari sociali , sul progetto di orientamenti relativi ai vari tipi di azioni innovative nel contesto dell ' articolo 22 del Regolamento generale ( CE ) 1260 / 1999 del 21 giugno 199 . 
ITALIAN Azioni innovative nel quadro dell ' articolo 6 del regolamento FSE [ C5 - 235 / 200 . 
ITALIAN 2000 / 2127 ( COS ) ] 
ITALIAN Relazione ( A5 - 0183 / 2000 ) dell ' onorevole Bourlanges a nome della commissione per i bilanci , sul progetto di bilancio rettificativo e suppletivo n . 1 / 2000 al bilancio delle Comunità europee per l ' esercizio 2000 [ C5 - 0314 / 2000 ] 
ITALIAN ( Il Parlamento approva la risoluzione ) 
ITALIAN ( Il Parlamento approva la risoluzione ) 
ITALIAN Relazione ( A5 - 0190 / 2000 ) dell ' onorevole Stauner a nome della commissione per il controllo dei bilanci , sul discarico da concedere alla Commissione sull ' esecuzione del bilancio generale dell ' Unione europea per l ' esercizio 1998 [ SEC ( 1999 ) 41 . 
ITALIAN C5 - 0006 / 199 . 
ITALIAN 1999 / 2050 ( DEC ) ] 
ITALIAN ( Il Parlamento approva la risoluzione ) 
ITALIAN Relazione ( A5 - 0167 / 2000 ) dell ' onorevole Rühle a nome della commissione per il controllo dei bilanci , sulla concessione del discarico alla Commissione per la gestione finanziaria del sesto , settimo e ottavo Fondo europeo di sviluppo per l ' esercizio 1998 [ COM ( 1999 ) 22 . 
ITALIAN C5 - 0003 / 199 . 
ITALIAN 1999 / 2004 ( DEC ) ] 
ITALIAN ( Il Parlamento approva la risoluzione ) 
ITALIAN Relazione ( A5 - 0189 / 2000 ) dell ' onorevole Kuhne a nome della commissione per il controllo dei bilanci , sulla concessione del discarico sull ' esecuzione del bilancio generale per l ' esercizio 1998 Sezione . 
ITALIAN Parlamento europeo / Allegato Mediatore [ SEC ( 1999 ) 41 . 
ITALIAN C5 - 0008 / 199 . 
ITALIAN 1999 / 2051 ( DEC ) ] 
ITALIAN Il trattino 6 si occupa del nostro gruppo . 
ITALIAN I presidenti dei gruppi avevano concordat. e tutti i presidenti lo possono confermar. che nella relazione non sarebbero stati affrontati casi concreti relativi a singoli gruppi e che eventuali problemi sarebbero stati affrontati insieme anche in futuro . 
ITALIAN Dopo aver rilevato che questa formulazione è ripresa tale e quale nella relazione , a nome del mio gruppo ho presentato una proposta di compromesso che , come mi è stato comunicato qualche giorno fa , avrebbe incontrato il favore del relatore . 
ITALIAN Successivamente abbiamo rinunciato a presentare una proposta che riguarda i problemi del gruppo PSE . 
ITALIAN Ora apprendo che il gruppo PSE non intende appoggiare il nostro emendamento n . 10, che porta il mio nome . 
ITALIAN Dichiaro in questa sede con molta chiarezza e con grande serietà , nonché con notevole rincrescimento , che l ' accordo concluso tra i presidenti dei gruppi è stato tradito . 
ITALIAN E ' stata tradita la correttezza ! 
ITALIAN Dichiaro altresì che il nostro gruppo si sente preso in giro , e parlo non solo a titolo personale bensì a nome dell ' intero gruppo ! 
ITALIAN Se il gruppo PSE non voterà a favore dell ' emendamento n . 1. e questo è un suo problema - , mi permetto di rilevare che la decisione che il gruppo PSE prenderà oggi sarà una decisione molto pesante . 
ITALIAN ( Applausi dai banchi del gruppo PPE - DE ) 
ITALIAN Onorevole Poettering , come lei sa , le dichiarazioni di voto si fanno dopo le votazioni . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , ho constatato che la legge non è uguale per tutti . Volevo fare un intervento sulla stessa linea , in occasione dell ' Assemblea plenaria precedente , sulla risoluzione su Feira , ma non mi concessero l ' autorizzazione di farlo e perciò intervenni in un altro momento , alla fine . 
ITALIAN Ricordo che ci fu una protesta generale fra quei seggi affinché si rispettasse il Regolamento . Oggi non è stato così . 
ITALIAN Non ha senso condizionare il voto degli altri . 
ITALIAN Accetto il fatto che uno possa difendere le proprie posizioni , quello che non si può accettare è che a questo punto , prima della votazione , si minacci il mio gruppo riguardo un tema che è stato votato dalla commissione per il controllo dei bilanci , con i voti , tra l ' altro , anche dei deputati di quei seggi . 
ITALIAN Inoltr. e con questo concludo signor President. è stato detto che nella relazione Kuhne non si fa menzione di alcun gruppo . 
ITALIAN Consiglio all ' onorevole Poettering di leggere attentamente la relazione . 
ITALIAN ( Applausi del gruppo PSE ) 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , nella mia veste di relatore desidero fare qualche breve osservazione . 
ITALIAN La prima è di carattere generale . 
ITALIAN Ritengo che sarebbe bene se in questo Parlamento ci abituassimo in futuro a non sentire violata la nostra sensibilità , durante le procedure di discarico del bilancio , soltanto quando sono in gioco i nostri comportamenti . 
ITALIAN Seconda osservazione : nella mia relazione originaria , approvata dalla commissione in marzo e sottoposta al voto dell ' Assemblea in aprile , avevo proposto di affrontare nella relazione un problema che riguarda il mio gruppo . 
ITALIAN A suo tempo , in sede di commissione , il mio gruppo e il gruppo Verts / ALE avevano deciso di risolvere tale problema , che riguarda il pagamento di funzionari del partito con fondi riservati al gruppo . 
ITALIAN Se l ' onorevole Poettering non era già a conoscenza di questa circostanza , può prenderne atto adesso . 
ITALIAN Mi sia concessa un ' osservazione di principio in quanto relatore per la procedura di discarico . 
ITALIAN Il discarico per l ' esecuzione del bilancio del Parlamento è stato collegato alla questione delle finanze dei gruppi a seguito di una proposta in tal senso presentata nel mese di aprile dall ' onorevole Elles a nome del gruppo PPE - DE . 
ITALIAN Quella che avete portato avanti era una proposta vostra , del vostro stesso gruppo ! 
ITALIAN Ed è in base proprio a questa proposta che la relazione contiene il punto da voi contestato . 
ITALIAN Allora fu fatto esplicito riferimento alla relazione della Corte dei conti . 
ITALIAN A nessun relatore per una procedura di discarico in cui siano coinvolti i gruppi può essere negato il discarico in forza di un accordo tra i presidenti dei gruppi , che tale accordo esista o meno . 
ITALIAN Richiamarsi al fatto che i presidenti dei gruppi si autoconcedano il discarico , è di per sé un fatto che merita ulteriori approfondimenti . 
ITALIAN Un ' ultima osservazione sul carattere di compromesso . 
ITALIAN E ' successo più di una volta che qualcuno abbia dichiarato come compromesso una propria proposta . 
ITALIAN Nessuno , in nessun momento , è venuto da me per discutere se questo sia o meno un compromesso . 
ITALIAN Mi è stato chiesto semplicemente se potevo accettare la proposta ed io ho risposto di no , perché non crea affatto maggiore trasparenza nella questione in gioco . Per tale motivo continuo ad essere contrario alla proposta . 
ITALIAN ( Applausi ) 
ITALIAN ( Il Parlamento approva la proposta di decisione ) 
ITALIAN Raccomandazione per la seconda lettura ( A5 - 0193 / 2000 ) della commissione per l ' ambiente , la sanità pubblica e la politica dei consumatori , relativa alla posizione comune presentata dal Consiglio in vista dell ' azione del regolamento del Parlamento europeo e del Consiglio che istituisce un sistema di identificazione e di registrazione dei bovini e relativo all ' etichettatura delle carni bovine e dei prodotti a base di carni bovine e che abroga il regolamento ( CE ) n . 820 / 97 [ 8251 / 1 / 200 . 
ITALIAN C5 - 0270 / 200 . 
ITALIAN 1999 / 0204 ( COD ) ] ( Relatore : onorevole Papayannakis ) 
ITALIAN Gli emendamenti nn . 1, 2, 3 e 5 mirano ad abolire l ' obbligo di indicare sulle etichette la categoria dell ' animale . 
ITALIAN Ci sono già state discussioni sulla definizione della categoria degli animali in sede di comitato amministrativo e la Commissione è fiduciosa che si troveranno soluzioni tali da soddisfare la maggioranza degli Stati membri , se non addirittura tutti . 
ITALIAN Di conseguenza , gli emendamenti non possono essere accolti . 
ITALIAN Sull ' emendamento n . 4, la Commissione è giunta alla conclusione che la proposta di regolamento assicuri già la piena sicurezza sull ' origine dei prodotti . 
ITALIAN Pertanto la Commissione non ritiene che sussista alcun motivo per accettare questo emendamento , che dunque respinge insieme con l ' emendamento n . 
ITALIAN 6 . A nome della Commissione desidero tuttavia rilevare che è possibile già ora indicare in etichetta la data di produzione della carne macinata , secondo la procedura volontaria semplificata . 
ITALIAN Mi permetto di segnalare ancora una volta che il Commissario Fischler ha dichiarato ieri che la maggior parte degli emendamenti sono già stati approvati ed inseriti nel testo dopo le discussioni avvenute in Parlamento durante la prima lettura . 
ITALIAN ( Il Presidente dichiara approvata la posizione comune così modificata ) 
ITALIAN Raccomandazione per la seconda lettura ( A5 - 0165 / 2000 ) della Commissione per l ' ambiente , la sanità pubblica e la politica dei consumatori , relativa alla posizione comune definita dal Consiglio in vista dell ' adozione del regolamento del Parlamento europeo e del Consiglio sull ' adesione volontaria delle organizzazioni a un sistema comunitario di ecogestione e audit ( EMAS ) [ 10677 / 2 / 199 . 
ITALIAN C5 - 0098 / 200 . 
ITALIAN 1998 / 0303 ( COD ) ] ( Relatore : onorevole García - Orcoyen Tormo ) 
ITALIAN La Commissione può accogliere gli emendamenti nn . 1, 2, la terza parte del n . 
ITALIAN 19, i nn . 3, 4, 16, la quarta parte del n . 
ITALIAN 19, i nn . 22, 25 nonché la prima e terza parte del n . 
ITALIAN 30 ; approva in linea di principio gli emendamenti n . 32 e la seconda parte del n . 
ITALIAN 33, mentre non può accettare tutti gli altri . 
ITALIAN Dopo l ' emendamento n. 49 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , affinché il gruppo PPE e il gruppo ELDR possano accettare l ' emendamento n . 
ITALIAN 41, presento un emendamento orale . Propongo di sostituire la dicitura " l ' inserimento attivo dei lavoratori e dei loro rappresentanti " con " l ' inserimento dei lavoratori e dei loro rappresentanti nell ' organizzazione " . 
ITALIAN Raccomandazione per la seconda lettura ( A5 - 0166 / 2000 ) della commissione per l ' ambiente , la sanità pubblica e la politica dei consumatori , relativa alla posizione comune definita dal Consiglio in vista dell ' adozione della direttiva del Parlamento europeo e del Consiglio concernente i valori limite per il benzene ed il monossido di carbonio nell ' aria ambiente [ 5860 / 1 / 200 . 
ITALIAN C5 - 0182 / 200 . 
ITALIAN 1998 / 0333 ( COD ) ] ( Relatore : onorevole Breyer ) 
ITALIAN 4 . Accoglie , invece , in linea di principio gli emendamenti nn . 
ITALIAN 5 e 6 e pienamente gli emendamenti nn . 2 e 3 . 
ITALIAN Non ci sono gli emendamenti 5 e 6 . 
ITALIAN Consiglio europeo del 19 / 20 giugno 2000 a Santa Maria da Feira 
ITALIAN Proposta di risoluzione ( B5 - 0583 / 2000 ) 
ITALIAN ( Il Parlamento respinge la proposta di risoluzione ) 
ITALIAN Proposta di risoluzione ( B5 - 0585 / 2000 ) 
ITALIAN ( Il Parlamento respinge la proposta di risoluzione ) - Proposta di risoluzione comune ( ) sulle conclusioni del Consiglio europeo di Feira del 19 e 20 giugno 2000 
ITALIAN ( Il Parlamento approva la risoluzione ) Proposta di risoluzione comune ( ) sulla delegazione di osservatori dell ' Unione sulle elezioni nello Zimbabwe 
ITALIAN ( Il Parlamento approva la risoluzione ) 
ITALIAN Tratta di esseri umani 
ITALIAN Proposta di risoluzione B5 - 0595 / 2000 sull ' immigrazione clandestina e la scoperta dei cadaveri di 58 immigranti clandestini a Dover 
ITALIAN ( Il Parlamento respinge la proposta di risoluzione ) - Proposta di risoluzione comune ( ) 
ITALIAN Per questo motivo abbiamo ritirato la nostra firma dalla risoluzione comune . 
ITALIAN La prego di prenderne atto . 
ITALIAN ( Il Parlamento approva la risoluzione comune ) 
ITALIAN Data l ' ora , interrompiamo qui il turno di votazioni , che riprenderà alle 17.30 . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , rispetto la sua decisione . 
ITALIAN Vorrei tuttavia far presente che votare un giovedì pomeriggio di luglio su questioni legislativ. la prossima relazione in votazione è infatti una relazione legislativ. è , a dir poco , sconsiderato Mi oppongo recisamente a una simile decisione ! 
ITALIAN Onorevole Roth - Behrendt , la voglio informare che non c ' è solo una relazione legislativa , ma ben quattro ! 
ITALIAN Termina qui il turno di votazioni . 
ITALIAN DICHIARAZIONI DI VOTO 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , per quanto riguarda la votazione sulla relazione Papayannakis chiedo alla Commissione di convocare un comitato di conciliazione per la settimana prossima , in modo da risolvere la questione prima della scadenza del 1 º settembre . 
ITALIAN La prego di informare la signora Commissario , visto che in questo momento non sta ascoltando . 
ITALIAN Relazione Schierhuber ( A5 - 0124 / 2000 ) 
ITALIAN Esistono gravi riserve in merito alla proposta di regolamento CE 1251 / 1999 concernente il lino e la canapa destinati alla produzione di fibre , in quanto la ripartizione delle quote tra gli Stati membri è sproporzionata . 
ITALIAN Paesi come la Grecia , aventi un settore agricolo rilevante ed un ' elevata percentuale di occupati in lavori agricoli , hanno a disposizione quote inferiori per quanto riguarda sia il lino che la canapa . 
ITALIAN Colgo l ' occasione per sottolineare che è necessaria una campagna d ' informazione negli Stati membri in modo da arginare la demagogia e l ' ignoranza circa la canapa tessile , che nel caso della Grecia hanno portato alla chiusura , da parte della polizia , di negozi che vendevano tessuti di canapa , nonché alla rovina di piccole imprese . 
ITALIAN Relazione Stauner ( A5 - 0182 / 2000 ) 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , i pensionati , come gli anziani , sono favorevoli alle novità , anche se qualcuno potrebbe pensare il contrario e quindi , ogni occasione nella quale , nel decidere sui Fondi strutturali , si inseriscono delle regole affinché ci siano delle azioni innovative , non può che trovarmi favorevole quale rappresentante del Partito dei pensionati . 
ITALIAN In questa occasion. e lo faccio volentier. auspico , dopo aver spiegato ovviamente che ho votato a favore , che in futuro si inseriscano , tra i progetti da finanziare come azioni innovative , anche progetti che si rivolgono non soltanto al miglioramento dell ' attività lavorativa in senso stretto , ma anche a tutto quanto riguarda i pensionati , i quali godono , nel loro periodo di assenza di attività lavorativa , della contribuzione versata in occasione di lavoro , periodo che , in senso lato , è un continuamento dell ' attività lavorativa . 
ITALIAN Relazione Virrankoski ( A5 - 0192 / 2000 ) 
ITALIAN Poiché il nostro Parlamento è stato sempre molto vigilante a che le spese relative alla PESC siano parte integrante del bilancio dell ' Unione , e quindi rientrino nel bilancio della Commissione , noi siamo preoccupati dalla deriva che può giungere dalla relazione Virrankoski , dalla tendenza cioè a mettere sempre più nel bilancio del Consiglio spese di funzionamento , spese operative per quanto riguarda la PESC . 
ITALIAN E ' per questo che ci siamo astenuti sulla relazione Virrankoski . 
ITALIAN Abbiamo votato contro la concessione di fondi supplementari ai consiglieri militari perché crediamo che una politica di pace abbia bisogno di esperti di pace e di una risoluzione non violenta del conflitto . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , ritengo che il Parlamento non possa accontentarsi di quanto ha ottenuto finora . 
ITALIAN Mi chiedo se l ' Assemblea sia realmente consapevole del fatto che , accordando il discarico , si assume la responsabilità per i danni conseguenti . 
ITALIAN Sarà difficile spiegare ai cittadini europei che nel caso Fléchard sono stati insabbiati 14 milioni di euro versati da loro stessi in quanto contribuenti , e che il Parlamento si accontenta di vuote promesse . 
ITALIAN Tutti coloro che in quest ' Aula hanno votato a favore del discarico del bilancio della Commissione si sono così assunti personalmente la responsabilità di quei fatti . 
ITALIAN Non c ' è da meravigliarsi se i cittadini nutrono sempre meno fiducia nell ' Europa . 
ITALIAN A nome del mio gruppo dichiaro che , per il motivo esposto , abbiamo votato contro il discarico alla Commissione . 
ITALIAN I membri del gruppo UEN hanno espresso voto contrario in occasione della votazione del 6 luglio 2000 sul discarico per l ' esecuzione del bilancio generale dell ' Unione europea per l ' esercizio 1998 . 
ITALIAN Il motivo è che l ' attuale Commissione , che si è impegnata ad attuare una radicale riforma amministrativa , non dà prova di sufficiente volontà di portare a termine tale riforma . 
ITALIAN I numerosi esempi di riluttanza , ritardi e rifiuti di consegnare documenti alla commissione per il controllo dei bilanci , unitamente al fatto , inaudito , che relazioni e verbali di primaria importanza spariscono dagli archivi dove dovrebbero stare , sono spiacevoli conferme del fatto che si continua a mantenere una gestione tipica dell ' epoca dell ' assolutismo . 
ITALIAN E ' palese che la chiusura ha lo scopo di proteggere i membri e i funzionari della Commissione dalle sanzioni che si applicano in qualsiasi amministrazione nazionale democratica , e senza le quali l ' amministrazione dell ' Unione europea non potrà mai funzionare . 
ITALIAN Durante la discussione sulla relazione ho citato due delle questioni ancora aperte , ma sono solo i sintomi di una malattia . 
ITALIAN Ad un anno dal suo insediamento , la Commissione non ha ancora presentato alcuna proposta di modifica sostanziale delle disposizioni dello statuto dei funzionari , che garantiscono una protezione giuridica dell ' incapacità e della disonesta e che sono assolutamente assurde in un ' amministrazione che asserisce di essere democratica . 
ITALIAN La discussione di questa relazione in seno alla commissione per il controllo dei bilanci ha già dimostrato che alcuni deputati del Parlamento sono più impegnati nel proteggere la Commissione dai cittadini che finanziano il bilancio dell ' Unione europea , che a difendere il diritto di questi stessi cittadini ad una gestione onesta ed efficiente del loro denaro . 
ITALIAN Viene esercitata una pressione inaccettabile su molti relatori e quei gruppi disonesti che hanno interesse ad ostacolare il chiarimento e la risoluzione di gravi casi di frode e truffa nell ' amministrazione della Commissione non hanno esitato ad arrivare alle minacce fisiche . 
ITALIAN Oggi la maggioranza dei deputati del Parlamento ha votato a favore del discarico . 
ITALIAN Non credo che molti di questi deputati siano soddisfatti della gestione economica della Commissione , ma siamo arrivati al punto in cui la maggioranza preferisce chiudere gli occhi piuttosto che rischiare che i propri cittadini ed elettori ottengano informazioni esaurienti sulle situazioni scandalose che si ripetono anno dopo anno . 
ITALIAN Sono convinto che la maggioranza dei deputati finirà a lungo andare col rimpiangere la propria indulgenza . 
ITALIAN Il 6 giugno , nella mia qualità di relatrice , ho raccomandato alla commissione per il controllo dei bilanci la concessione del discarico per l ' esecuzione del bilancio della Commissione relativo all ' esercizio 1998 . 
ITALIAN Oggi ho votato contro la concessione del discarico . 
ITALIAN Il motivo determinante è stato il comportamento tenuto dal Commissario competente per i bilanci nel caso Fléchard , una società sospettata di frode già dal 1992 . 
ITALIAN Nonostante i sospetti , a questa società è stata condonata una penale di 14,6 milioni di euro ; nonostante i sospetti , in tutti questi anni la Commissione ha continuato tranquillamente a fare affari con detta società senza chiederle nessuna spiegazione . 
ITALIAN Ora la Guardia di finanza italiana sta conducendo delle indagini e corre voce che la Fléchard sia coinvolta in traffici illeciti e adulterazioni aventi come oggetto il burro . 
ITALIAN Non è sicuramente corretto emettere condanne a priori ; tuttavia , il Commissario competente per i bilanci non ha il diritto di rifiutarsi di dire quanti milioni la Commissione abbia pagato negli anni scorsi alla società in questione . 
ITALIAN Il 24 maggio il Commissario , signora Schreyer , aveva promesso di comunicare tali cifre alla commissione per il controllo dei bilanci , ma non lo ha ancora fatto , ricorrendo a sempre nuove scuse . 
ITALIAN Martedì scorso , in questa sede , ci ha voluto far credere , asserendo il falso , di non poter fornire quelle cifre perché lo impedirebbe il regolamento n . 2390 / 1999 . 
ITALIAN Il bilancio della Comunità non è un bilancio segreto . 
ITALIAN Se la Commissione si rifiuta di render conto dei suoi atti , non possiamo che reagire rifiutando la concessione del discarico . 
ITALIAN E ' tutt ' altro che scontato concedere il discarico alla Commissione europea . 
ITALIAN Negli anni passati le irregolarità finanziarie sono state tali da costringerci a negare il discarico e ciò ha portato alle dimissioni della Commissione Santer . 
ITALIAN Questa volta ci occupiamo dell ' esercizio 1998 e la valutazione è estremamente difficile . 
ITALIAN La responsabilità è tutta della Commissione precedente , ma ne stiamo discutendo con l ' attuale Commissione Prodi , che ha dato avvio ad una gestione più corretta e ad un ' indagine sulle frodi commesse in passato . 
ITALIAN Nella primavera di quest ' anno il Parlamento ha giustamente rinviato la concessione del discarico per l ' esercizio 1999 al fine di ottenere maggiori chiarimenti e miglioramenti . 
ITALIAN Tali miglioramenti in gran parte sono stati promessi , anche se una percentuale di errori gravi superiore al 5 percento è spaventosamente elevata . 
ITALIAN Il fatto che la relazione sulla riunione della Commissione in cui è stata ridotta all ' osso la multa per l ' affaire Fléchard sia introvabile non è altro che una presa in giro . 
ITALIAN La commissione per il controllo dei bilanci è stata dibattuta tra un giudizio severo e il beneficio del dubbio . 
ITALIAN In relazione alla valutazione finale se concedere o meno il discarico , abbiamo concesso all ' odierna Commissione il beneficio del dubbio per quanto riguarda il 1998 . 
ITALIAN L ' onorevole Redondo mi ha chiesto la parola per una questione di procedura . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , vorrei chiedere che la votazione sulla relazione relativa alla protezione dei boschi venga rimandata alla prossima sessione in quanto oggi , per questioni inderogabili , devo lasciare l ' Aula alle 17.00 . 
ITALIAN Onorevole Redondo , ci sono diverse relazioni di carattere legislativo che non abbiamo potuto mettere in votazione , perché non c ' era assolutamente tempo e che , di conseguenza , saranno messe in votazione oggi pomeriggio , al termine del turno di votazione delle urgenze , come sempre . 
ITALIAN Come lei sa , determinate decisioni vengono prese dalla Conferenza dei presidenti . 
ITALIAN Normalmente , quando cominciamo a votare a mezzogiorno , lo facciamo per un ' ora . 
ITALIAN Oggi abbiamo iniziato alle 12.15 e abbiamo terminato di votare verso le 13.30. Il tempo per votare alcune risoluzioni , come il Consiglio europeo di Feira , lo Zimbabwe e la tratta degli esseri umani era un tempo relativamente breve . 
ITALIAN Il voto per i progetti legislativi è relativamente lungo . 
ITALIAN In ogni caso non è un tema da riprendere ora . 
ITALIAN Terremo conto della sua osservazione e la faremo conoscere alla Conferenza dei presidenti , perché nell ' ordine delle votazioni , così come abbiamo votato , tutti gli esami in seconda lettur. che sono un elemento che riguarda la nostra capacità di Assemblea legislativ. si votano anche nell ' ordine dei progetti che sono relativi al nostro potere di colegislazione . 
ITALIAN Voglia scusarmi , signor Presidente , se riprendo il punto su cui ho concluso il mio intervento precedente e se mi riallaccio a quanto testé detto dall ' onorevole Swoboda . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , ho ben compreso tutte le sue argomentazioni , però questa settimana , per la prima volta , non abbiamo avuto alcuna votazione nel giorno di martedì . 
ITALIAN E ' stato deciso così . 
ITALIAN Noi eravamo contrari , ma credo che anche la maggioranza del Parlament. se lo avesse saput. e i relator. la onorevole Redondo Jiménez o l ' onorevole Arvidsson e altr. sarebbero stati sicuramente contrari . 
ITALIAN Se prendiamo una decisione del genere , dobbiamo dar prova di una certa dose di flessibilità . 
ITALIAN In questa cerchia un po ' ristretta mi permetto di rilevare che la maggior parte di noi sono parlamentari esperti , e sappiamo bene che non tutte le sedute sono uguali . 
ITALIAN La seduta di giovedì della sessione di luglio è una seduta altamente delicata . 
ITALIAN Lo sappiamo , non sarà bello però è così . 
ITALIAN La prego quindi di verificare se i quattro progetti legislativi che sono ancora all ' ordine del giorno e sui quali si può votare senza impiegare troppo tempo possono essere aggiornati alla prossima seduta . 
ITALIAN La stessa onorevole Redondo Jiménez lo ha chiesto per la sua relazione , ed io appoggio senz ' altro tale richiesta . 
ITALIAN La invito a mettersi in contatto con i relatori e con i gruppi . 
ITALIAN L ' onorevole Swoboda ha già detto , e per parte mia posso ribadire a nome del mio gruppo , che saremo favorevoli ad un rinvio della votazione su questi quattro progetti legislativi alla tornata di settembre oppure ad una seduta a Bruxelles . 
ITALIAN Onorevole Roth - Behrendt , lei sa che si può ottenere un rinvio della discussione sia all ' inizio della seduta , il mattino , sia all ' inizio della votazione . 
ITALIAN Quindi oggi pomeriggio , quando inizieranno le votazioni , ci sarà un relatore o un collega che chiederà di votare a settembre . 
ITALIAN Su questa esigenza non ho alcuna obiezione . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , lei ha pienamente ragione . 
ITALIAN Quella da lei proposta è senz ' altro la giusta procedura da seguire ; tuttavia , per correttezza nei confronti dei relatori dovremmo informarli di questa possibilità quando si programma la seduta e quando si sa per certo che l ' onorevole Swoboda o io o altri deputati interverranno in merito . 
ITALIAN In ogni caso , il Presidente di turno sarà informato di questa richiesta e darà naturalmente la parola a un deputato che in quel momento la formalizzerà . 
ITALIAN Relazione Rühle ( A5 - 0167 / 2000 ) 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , ho votato contro la relazione Rühle . 
ITALIAN In primo luogo ritengo che ci sia un errore di cifra , perché si parla di bilancio , nel 1998, di ben 10.940.000 milioni di eur. questo almeno nella versione italian. cosa che mi sembra , così a prima vista , un po ' troppo ; credo che ci sia un errore di almeno tre zeri . 
ITALIAN Chiusa questa parentesi , vorrei sottolineare che , tra gli altri aspetti che , come già il relatore ha sottolineato nella sua relazione , non vanno ben. per cui sarebbe stato logico concludere con una richiesta di votazione contro il proprio document. sarebbe opportuno che in futuro si lasciasse almeno una parte di questi fondi anche alle associazioni di volontari , molti dei quali sono anziani e pensionati , che sono disponibili ad andare nel mondo per aiutare lo sviluppo dei paesi che ne hanno necessità . 
ITALIAN Si trattava di una decisione legittima , visto che i cittadini degli Stati membri hanno il diritto di chiedere spiegazioni sul modo in cui viene speso il denaro dell ' Unione europea , il loro denaro . 
ITALIAN Il nostro gruppo , estremamente determinato a questo proposito , è pienamente favorevole alle misure che possono essere intraprese per la lotta contro la frode e le malversazioni . 
ITALIAN Le irregolarità costatate , quelle affrontate nella relazione Stauner sulla contestabile gestione effettuata dalla Commissione e quelle messe in evidenza nella relazione della onorevole Rühle sui Fondi europei di sviluppo , non possono lasciarci indifferenti e nuocciono all ' immagine e alla credibilità della Comunità nel suo insieme . 
ITALIAN Quindi , onorevoli colleghi , dobbiamo trarre tutte le conseguenze , sia che si tratti di sanzionare i sicuri responsabili che di applicare procedure più trasparenti . 
ITALIAN Come si evince dai voti espressi in seno alla commissione per il controllo dei bilanci , le relazioni delle onorevoli Rühle e Stauner vanno , crediamo , in questa direzione . 
ITALIAN La relazione della onorevole Rühle sui FES pone la Commissione di fronte alle sue responsabilità , domandando maggiore chiarezza per l ' insieme dei futuri aiuti erogati dall ' Unione ai paesi in via di sviluppo . 
ITALIAN La preoccupazione di una maggiore moralizzazione della politica degli aiuti e l ' efficacia del loro utilizzo è un principio ormai chiaramente riconosciuto e il nostro gruppo ne è soddisfatto . 
ITALIAN E ' tuttavia inaccettabile che , con il pretesto di un controllo migliore mirante ad un utilizzo più onesto e razionale dei fondi europei - mi riferisco in particolare ai paesi dell ' Africa , dei Caraibi e del Pacific. la nostra decisione diventi una scusa per organizzare altrove un processo ingiusto contro alcuni paesi dell ' Unione , attraverso una caccia alle streghe che , sembra , mira a colpire alcuni alti funzionari di una stessa nazionalità . Mi riferisco ad uno dei principali contribuenti netti , la Francia . 
ITALIAN La nostra preoccupazione principale è una maggiore trasparenza sulle finanze dei gruppi politici di quest ' Assemblea ; inoltre i cittadini europei non capirebbero se noi tenessimo un altro discorso . 
ITALIAN Occorre essere ragionevoli ! 
ITALIAN Inoltre , prendere atto delle precisazioni supplementari che avevamo richiesto alla Commissione in primavera , nell ' ambito della relazione Stauner , non legittima assolutamente per il nostro gruppo il fatto che la nostra Istituzione sia poi colpita da amnesia , in seguito a pratiche inaccettabili e a scapito del denaro dei nostri concittadini . 
ITALIAN Il nostro gruppo si congratula per il lavoro svolto dalle relatrici , onorevoli Stauner e Rühle e dall ' onorevole Kuhne . 
ITALIAN Tuttavia , è necessario rimanere vigilanti e osservare , attraverso l ' esperienza diretta , l ' atteggiamento della Commissione europea per quanto concerne gli impegni presi . 
ITALIAN Quindi , per il momento , il nostro gruppo preferisce astenersi . 
ITALIAN Relazione Kuhne ( A5 - 0189 / 2000 ) 
ITALIAN Ho votato contro il discarico al Segretario generale perché , in occasione dell ' acquisto dell ' edificio ASP a Bruxelles , ha fornito informazioni fuorvianti agli organi competenti per la decisione . 
ITALIAN Si è fatto credere , inoltre , che il finanziamento dell ' immobile con l ' aiuto del promotore immobiliare fosse una forma indiretta di finanziamento . 
ITALIAN Di fatto , invece , nel 1998 il Parlamento si è indebitato direttamente per importi pari a 472 milioni di ECU e 7 miliardi di franchi belgi nei confronti di un consorzio di banche guidate dalla WestLB , senza che prima comparisse un bando sulla Gazzetta ufficiale . 
ITALIAN Relazione Papayannakis ( A5 - 0193 / 2000 ) 
ITALIAN E ' servito lo scandalo della mucca pazza per rendersi conto della necessità di migliorare l ' identificazione e l ' etichettatura dei prodotti alimentari . 
ITALIAN Oggi , sulla base di un accordo unanime in seno al Consiglio , possiamo finalmente dimostrare un po ' di determinazione . 
ITALIAN La posizione comune sottopostaci riprende infatti molti degli emendamenti adottati dal nostro Parlamento in prima lettura . 
ITALIAN Per quel che concerne le diciture obbligatorie , l ' indicazione dell ' origine , le date della lavorazione , le carni macinate e il sistema facoltativo ritengo che il Parlamento possa essere soddisfatto , visto che il Consiglio ci ha ascoltati . 
ITALIAN Il dibattito si è incentrato su alcuni punti specifici e , in particolare , sull ' indicazione della categoria dell ' animale sull ' etichetta . 
ITALIAN Tuttavia , dopo il susseguirsi degli scandali alimentari , sempre denunciati con forza dal nostro Parlamento , come potremmo oggi non tenere conto del ruolo fondamentale svolto dal consumatore ? 
ITALIAN L ' indicazione esplicita della categoria risponde ad una richiesta in quanto contribuisce a restituire la fiducia ai consumatori . 
ITALIAN Occorre distinguere fra due tipi di informazioni : 
ITALIAN quelle che facilitano l ' identificazione , ma che non sono direttamente destinate ad informare il consumatore finale . 
ITALIAN Sono infatti troppo specifiche , formalmente comprensibili solo dai professionisti e svolgono una funzione di tipo sanitario . 
ITALIAN I controlli potranno essere effettuati sulla base di queste diciture . 
ITALIAN Parliamo quindi dell ' attuazione del sistema d ' identificazione e dell ' etichettatura ; 
ITALIAN Cosa vuole sapere ? 
ITALIAN Vuole essere sicuro che il prodotto che consumerà sia sano : il sistema di identificazione e di etichettatura permetterà di garantire la sicurezza e la qualità della carne bovina . 
ITALIAN Ma il cittadino desidera anche sapere di che tipo di carne si tratta . 
ITALIAN Questo tipo di dicitura sull ' etichetta si rivolge direttamente al consumatore finale fornendogli un ' informazione intelligibile . 
ITALIAN E ' sbagliato dire che questo non serve a niente . 
ITALIAN Al contrario , questa etichettatura è tanto importante quanto l ' attuazione di garanzie sanitarie . 
ITALIAN Non possiamo decretare la fiducia dei nostri consumatori , dobbiamo conquistarla . 
ITALIAN Relazione Garcia - Orcoyen Tormo ( A5 - 0165 / 2000 ) 
ITALIAN Un corretto obiettivo politico dell ' Unione europea è quello di garantire che le imprese svolgano la propria attività nel rispetto dell ' ambiente . 
ITALIAN Il sistema comunitario di ecogestione e audit , noto come EMAS , offre alle imprese dell ' Unione l ' occasione di ottenere una certificazione del fatto che svolgono la loro attività nel rispetto dell ' ambiente . 
ITALIAN Oggi discutiamo la revisione del regolamento originario del 1993 che ha istituito il sistema comunitario di ecogestione e audit . 
ITALIAN I criteri per l ' iscrizione nel registro EMAS sono molto rigorosi . 
ITALIAN In pratica vi è una rendicontazione pubblica dei risultati ottenuti da ogni ente nazionale per gli standard in ogni Stato membro . 
ITALIAN Ognuno di questi enti svolge un esame completo ed esaustivo , secondo il sistema EMAS , dell ' impatto ambientale di tutte le attività del potenziale candidato . 
ITALIAN Secondo il nuovo regolamento che stiamo discutendo oggi , le piccole e medie imprese potranno richiedere più facilmente la certificazione EMAS , che finora è stata richiesta soprattutto dalle maggiori aziende industriali . 
ITALIAN Dobbiamo ricordare che l ' EMAS è la versione europea dello standard internazionale noto come ISO14001 ; in pratica , lo standard internazionale ISO è l ' equivalente dell ' ISO9000 per le aziende europee , elaborato però secondo un adeguato approccio ambientale . 
ITALIAN E ' perciò opportuno che la politica dell ' Unione europea in questo settore garantisca che tutte le aziende europee rispettino l ' ambiente e che adottino le iniziative necessarie affinché la loro attività non eserciti alcun impatto negativo sull ' ambiente . 
ITALIAN Ecco perché approvo le proposte volte ad assicurare un più facile accesso delle PMI al sistema EMAS . 
ITALIAN Tale sistema dovrà divenire più flessibile , nonostante le sue norme rigorose , per permettere a tutti i settori e a tutte le imprese dell ' Unione europea di ottenere la certificazione secondo il sistema comunitario di ecogestione e audit . 
ITALIAN Raccomandazione per la seconda lettura Breyer ( A5 - 0166 / 2000 ) 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , ho votato a favore di questa raccomandazione che stabilisce dei valori limite per il benzene e il monossido di carbonio nell ' aria ambiente . 
ITALIAN Sono naturalmente favorevole in quanto , se qualcuno viene danneggiato , tra questi i primi sono sicuramente gli anziani e i pensionati , che evidentemente hanno già qualche volta i polmoni un po ' malandati . 
ITALIAN A parte questo , vorrei sottolineare la mia richiesta che in futuro non ci si preoccupi solamente di quello che respirano i cittadini , ma anche di quello che respirano i lavoratori che hanno a che fare , ad esempio , appunto con il benzene e il monossido di carbonio . 
ITALIAN Sarebbe bene che ci interessassimo anche perché i loro orari di lavoro siano ridotti rispetto agli altri lavoratori , in modo che possano usufruire della media della vita di tutti i cittadini . 
ITALIAN Credo che l ' Unione europea dovrebbe interessarsi particolarmente di come e quanto lavorano i cittadini che respirano quelle sostanze dannose , che giustamente ci preoccupiamo di non far respirare ai pedoni . 
ITALIAN I lavoratori devono essere ancora più protetti . 
ITALIAN Raccomandazione per la seconda lettura Jackson ( A5 - 0164 / 2000 ) 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , ho votato a favore e mi congratulo con la relatrice , onorevole Jackson , che ha tanto insistito perché si trasformasse in direttiva questa raccomandazione sull ' organizzazione concreta di ispezioni ambientali . 
ITALIAN E ' inutile che questo Parlamento approvi centinaia e centinaia di direttive , di regolamentazioni importantissime e utilissime se poi non si svolgono degli effettivi , concreti e sufficienti controlli affinché tali regolamentazioni vengano realmente applicate e concretamente ci sia un beneficio per tutti i cittadini dell ' Unione europea , particolarment. come ho detto poc ' anz. quando si tratta di salute ambientale , come in questo caso , e quando l ' inosservanza delle regole porta danno soprattutto agli anziani e ai pensionati . 
ITALIAN L ' obiettivo principale della raccomandazione è di favorire il rispetto della legislazione ambientale comunitaria negli Stati membri e di contribuire ad una sua più coerente applicazione . 
ITALIAN La proposta di raccomandazione fissa dei criteri minimi da applicare nell ' organizzazione , nello svolgimento , nel follow - up e nella informazione sui risultati delle ispezioni ambientali . 
ITALIAN Essa prevede ispezioni ambientali in tutte le aziende , industriali o d ' altro tipo , le cui emissioni e i cui scarichi nell ' ambiente siano soggetti ad autorizzazioni o licenze specifiche ; questo varrebbe certamente per tutte le aziende che ottengono licenze per il controllo dell ' inquinamento sotto gli auspici delle agenzie per l ' ambiente . 
ITALIAN Secondo il testo di questa raccomandazione , le ispezioni ambientali comprenderanno : visite in sito ; verifica dell ' automonitoraggio effettuato dai gestori degli impianti controllati ; controllo dei locali , delle attrezzature e dell ' adeguatezza della gestione ambientale del sito nonché degli archivi tenuti dai gestori . 
ITALIAN Si prevedono due tipi di ispezioni : quelle di routine , effettuate secondo un programma ispettivo pianificato , e ispezioni straordinarie in seguito a denunce relative alle licenze , al loro rinnovo o alla loro modifica . 
ITALIAN Gli Stati membri dovranno elaborare preventivamente dei piani di ispezione ambientale che coprano tutto il territorio nazionale e i relativi impianti ; questi piani saranno a disposizione di chiunque voglia consultarli nell ' ambito delle più ampie campagne informative contemplate da questa proposta . 
ITALIAN Secondo questa proposta di raccomandazione , ogni piano dovrà definire la relativa area geografica , coprire un periodo di tempo definito , comprendere provvedimenti specifici per la sua revisione , individuare i siti o i tipi di impianti di cui dovrà occuparsi , indicare i programmi per le ispezioni ambientali di routine , prevedere e definire le procedure per le ispezioni ambientali straordinarie , disporre il coordinamento fra le diverse autorità ispettive . 
ITALIAN Vorrei congratularmi con la onorevole Jackson per la sua relazione , in cui chiede di tradurre la proposta in una direttiva che possa essere applicata uniformemente in tutta l ' Unione europea . 
ITALIAN La relatrice ritiene infatti che soltanto una direttiva potrà costringere gli Stati membri a introdurre questi sistemi ispettivi . 
ITALIAN Quale membro della commissione per l ' ambiente , la sanità pubblica e la politica dei consumatori , credo che gli Stati membri debbano istituire ispezioni ambientali armonizzate . 
ITALIAN Il Consiglio deve ascoltare il Parlamento europeo a questo proposito . 
ITALIAN Noi tutti dobbiamo ricordare che il Parlamento europeo ha potere di codecisione su questioni ambientali , in seguito all ' attuazione delle disposizioni del Trattato di Amsterdam . 
ITALIAN L ' Unione europea è anche competente per le questioni ambientali ai sensi dell ' articolo 130 del Trattato di Maastricht . 
ITALIAN Consiglio europeo del 19 / 20 giugno 2000 a Santa Maria da Feira 
ITALIAN In merito alla Presidenza portoghese e al Vertice conclusivo di Santa Maria da Feira , vorrei formulare quattro osservazioni . 
ITALIAN Anzitutto l ' Unione ha compiuto un ennesimo passo pericoloso verso la militarizzazione , promovendo l ' organizzazione di una forza militare e di polizia dell ' Unione e lo sviluppo dell ' ambito atlantico entro cui opererà detta forza . 
ITALIAN Sono invece mancate azioni positive a favore della pace , visto che la situazione in Jugoslavia continua a ristagnare . 
ITALIAN I lavori in corso della CIG , in secondo luogo , sono orientati più verso " un ' Europa a due velocità " che non verso la democratizzazione , come dimostrano sia il continuo riferimento alla " cooperazione rafforzata " che le varie proposte di ridurre il ruolo dei paesi piccoli in Consiglio e Commissione . 
ITALIAN In terzo luogo , sotto la pressione esercitata in particolare dal Regno Unito , l ' Unione non è riuscita ad elaborare un accordo concreto e un calendario vincolante relativamente all ' informazione fiscale , lasciando piena libertà ai paradisi fiscali " dentro l ' Europa " . 
ITALIAN Infine , il Vertice di Lisbona a metà della Presidenza portoghese ha dato il via libera all ' abbandono del modello previdenziale europeo e al suo adeguamento al modello americano . 
ITALIAN Lo abbiamo fatto perché apprezziamo il lavoro svolto dalla Presidenza che ha elaborato un programma valido e rivolto al futuro dell ' Europa , come emerge anche nel capitolo della risoluzione sul seguito del Consiglio europeo di Lisbona . 
ITALIAN Il nostro voto globale non deve essere però interpretato come un sostegno da parte nostra all ' auspicio di ampliare l ' ordine del giorno della CIG e all ' inserimento della Carta dei diritti fondamentali con effetto giuridico vincolante nel Trattato ; a tale riguardo rinvio alle nostre dichiarazioni di voto espresse per il Consiglio europeo di Helsinki , la convocazione della CIG , la posizione del Parlamento europeo in relazione alla Conferenza intergovernativa e la preparazione del Consiglio europeo di Feira . 
ITALIAN Il Parlamento avrebbe fatto meglio a rilevare , certo con soddisfazione , la determinazione dei Capi di Stato e di governo di raggiungere un accordo integrale sulla totalità del pacchetto fiscale ( tassazione dei redditi da risparmio , tassazione delle imprese , interessi e canoni ) entro la fine del 2002 . 
ITALIAN Sarebbe anche stato necessario chiedere di poter esaminare le relazioni che la Commissione dovrà presentare , a intervalli regolari , sull ' applicazione dei sistemi di scambio d ' informazioni e di ritenuta alla fonte in materia di tassazione del risparmio , così come la relazione sulla base della quale saranno decise l ' adozione e l ' applicazione della direttiva . 
ITALIAN Vorrei ricordare che ciò non è avvenuto . 
ITALIAN Sono consapevole che i pareri sul compromesso fiscale negoziato con enorme difficoltà a Feira sono molto eterogenei , come emerge dalla stampa europea . 
ITALIAN o ancora " Lo scozzese Brown rafforza Londra come piazza finanziaria . 
ITALIAN Londra si impone nel contenzioso fiscale dell ' Unione " , " Le banche svizzere non vedono la necessità di agire " , " Prima che sia abolito il segreto bancario , tutte le piazze finanziarie devono collaborare " . 
ITALIAN Anche l ' osservazione pubblicata sul Basler Zeitung del 24 giugno scorso la dice lunga a questo proposito : " E ' più probabile che crolli il Matterhorn che i cittadini svizzeri votino per l ' abolizione del segreto bancario e che il Ministro delle finanze di Berna diventi l ' esattore fiscale di Bruxelles " . 
ITALIAN In tale contesto , il titolo dell ' Écho del 24 giugno , che osserva giustamente che " senza garanzie sufficienti , Lussemburgo bloccherà la direttiva sulla tassazione " e che " lo scambio di informazioni dovrà essere attuato anche dalle piazze concorrenti " , riflette ciò che è stato effettivamente deciso a Feira . 
ITALIAN Il fatto che la nostra risoluzione deplori il calendario fissato a Feira mostra l ' ignoranza o l ' illusione dei suoi autori , ai quali vorrei ricordare ciò che il Primo ministro lussemburghese ha tenuto a precisare in proposito a Feira , ovvero che in materia di tassazione dei risparmi " rimangono ancora una cinquantina di problemi tecnici che il Consiglio non ha mai affrontato " . 
ITALIAN Rimproverare al calendario previsto di non riflettere l ' urgenza del problema dimostra un ' assoluta mancanza di realismo e di responsabilità . 
ITALIAN Il Primo ministro Antonio Guterres ha dichiarato che " non bisogna lasciare spazio ad una deriva intergovernativa , . 
ITALIAN Non è paradossale vedere il rappresentante dei governi degli Stati membri denunciare il rischio di " deriva intergovernativa " dell ' Unione europea ? 
ITALIAN Il paradosso è ancora più evidente visto che è chiaro agli occhi di tutti , o quasi , l ' impasse a cui conducono le formule federaliste e , in particolare , le ultime in ordine di tempo , ovvero le cooperazioni rafforzate . Per cercare di risolvere l ' insanabile contraddizione tra federalismo e ampliamento , durante tutta la Presidenza portoghese è stata messa in evidenza con particolare vigore la formula miracolosa delle cooperazioni rafforzate . 
ITALIAN Lo stesso Presidente Chirac ne ha parlato in quest ' Aula presentandola come una sorta di soluzione universale con " un ' avanguardia " di " paesi pionieri " pronti ad indicare la strada a tutti gli altri . 
ITALIAN Osserviamo inoltre che , per quel che concerne l ' avanguardia , nell ' ambito del federalismo europeo sono ricomparse espressioni che hanno avuto in passato enorme fortuna in altri ambiti ideologici . 
ITALIAN La presentazione di una simile formula , in maniera lirico - ideologica , dissipa i reali pericoli insiti nella generalizzazione del principio della maggioranza qualificata e quindi l ' eliminazione della regola dell ' unanimità . 
ITALIAN Le cooperazioni rafforzate sono denunciate con forza , e a giusto titolo , dagli Stati membri piccoli e medi come attentatrici della loro dignità , visto che la sovranità è un principio che garantisce l ' uguaglianza e il rispetto di ciascuno . 
ITALIAN Inoltre , nell ' ambito delle stesse cooperazioni rafforzate , l ' applicazione del principio della maggioranza , in luogo dell ' unanimità , rischia di creare tensioni insostenibili , conferendo un monopolio di fatto per le decisioni ad un unico paese dominante . 
ITALIAN E ' quindi evidente che il principio della maggioranza qualificata , se è inapplicabile con 35 Stati , non lo è nemmeno con 2 o 3 . 
ITALIAN La " soluzione miracolosa " si rivela in realtà una doppia fonte di tensioni che rischiano di ledere profondamente la cooperazione europea . 
ITALIAN Per questo motivo proponiamo , invece delle cooperazioni rafforzate che sarebbero necessariamente un fattore di pericolose tensioni , cooperazioni differenziate , concluse fra Stati sovrani , liberi di concludere gli accordi che vogliono negli ambiti che desiderano , purché tali accordi non ledano gli interessi fondamentali dei loro partner . 
ITALIAN . ( FR ) I deputati di Lotta operaia condividono l ' indignazione espressa nella proposta del gruppo GUE , che abbiamo votato , per la morte dei 58 immigrati a Dover e di tanti altri che cercavano di varcare le frontiere esterne o interne dell ' Unione europea . 
ITALIAN Per mettere fine ad una situazione in cui la miseria spinge migliaia di essere umani verso luoghi dove sperano di vivere in condizioni migliori , bisognerebbe porre fine ad un sistema sociale che , per concentrare ricchezze enormi nelle mani di pochi , costringe alla povertà la maggior parte della popolazione del pianeta . 
ITALIAN Non è certo un voto del Parlamento che porterà un cambiamento , sebbene sia una necessità vitale per l ' umanità . 
ITALIAN E ' scandaloso che le Istituzioni attuali , nazionali e europee , restino indifferenti anche negli ambiti nei quali potrebbero intervenire . 
ITALIAN Il dramma di Dover si è consumato fra due Stati europei . 
ITALIAN Le barriere erette attorno all ' Unione europea sussistono anche al suo interno per i cittadini di paesi terzi e queste barriere possono uccidere . 
ITALIAN Denunciare i farabutti che si arricchiscono con la tratta degli esseri umani non basta : occorre assicurare agli immigrati i diritti che dovrebbero essere garantiti a ciascun essere umano . 
ITALIAN Occorre assicurare la libera circolazione delle persone , porre fine a politiche dell ' immigrazione che trasformano gli immigrati in una razza inferiore priva di qualsiasi diritto o in clandestini , vittime della polizia . 
ITALIAN Protestiamo con vigore contro la politica del governo francese che si compiace del suo ruolo di Presidente dell ' Unione europea , ma che si rifiuta di regolarizzare 65.000 lavoratori immigrati , divenuti clandestini a causa di leggi inique ed esigiamo che siano regolarizzati immediatamente . 
ITALIAN Il dramma che si è consumato nel porto di Dover , che ha causato la morte di 58 immigranti , e a quello che alcuni mesi fa ha provocato la morte di due bambini della Guinea durante l ' atterraggio di un aereo della Sabena sono tragici segnali delle politiche di cooperazione e di sviluppo insufficienti ed errate in vigore e delle politiche di immigrazione e di asilo inadeguate che vengono messe in pratica dall ' Unione europea e dai suoi Stati membri . 
ITALIAN Questi event. che vanno ad aggiungersi all ' elenco degli effetti nefasti provocati della globalizzazion. segnalano l ' urgenza di adottare orientamenti e mezzi capaci di diminuire il divario che separa i paesi industrializzati da quelli in via di sviluppo , nonché la profonda necessità di concretizzare misure legislative nazionali e comunitarie audaci e tolleranti nel settore dell ' emigrazione , destinate soprattutto a migliorare le condizioni di accoglienza degli immigranti per favorirne l ' integrazione e il pieno riconoscimento dei diritti civili , economici , sociali e culturali . 
ITALIAN E ' con questo spirito che abbiamo avanzato una proposta di risoluzione . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , effettuerò la mia dichiarazione di voto per iscritto . 
ITALIAN Mi si consenta però una mozione di procedura . 
ITALIAN In passato , quando si partecipava alla votazione e si effettuavano dichiarazioni di voto per iscritto , si poteva lasciare l ' Aula in quanto la Presidenza comunicava di avere ricevuto per le varie relazioni delle dichiarazioni di voto scritte . 
ITALIAN Oggi invece occorre attendere ; ieri ho atteso ben 40 minuti per poter comunicare che avrei effettuato la mia dichiarazione di voto per iscritto ! 
ITALIAN E ' tempo perso , considerando che i nostri ritmi sono già disumani . 
ITALIAN Le votazioni infatti si svolgono dalle 12 alle 13.30, dopodiché occorre rimanere qui fino alle 16.00 per comunicare che si intende effettuare la dichiarazione di voto per iscritto ! 
ITALIAN I servizi mi hanno detto che era necessario rimanere qui . 
ITALIAN Forse l ' avreste accettata... tuttavia , non potremmo chiarire le cose ? 
ITALIAN Sono d ' accordo sul fatto che chi non prende parte alla votazione su una relazione o una risoluzione non possa effettuare una dichiarazione di voto scritta . Tuttavia , perché coloro che hanno preso parte alla votazione e forniscono una dichiarazione scritta devono rimanere qui ancora mezz ' ora ? 
ITALIAN Può spiegarmene il motivo ? 
ITALIAN Onorevole Lulling , con chi se la deve prendere ? 
ITALIAN Se tutti quelli che sono qui le facessero per iscritto , lei avrebbe potuto fare la sua un po ' di tempo prima . 
ITALIAN Comunque , i suoi colleghi hanno il diritto di fare le dichiarazioni di voto su tutte le relazioni che votiamo . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , un commento sui paragrafi 2 e 3, in cui si afferma che la CIG rappresenta la questione chiave in vista dell ' ampliamento . 
ITALIAN Non è così . 
ITALIAN La questione chiave è piuttosto il modo in cui verranno gestiti i negoziati con i paesi candidati , e il risultato a cui porteranno . 
ITALIAN Oggi non esiste un termine ultimo e i paesi candidati ritengono che l ' Unione sia del tutto vaga nella sua posizione . 
ITALIAN Desidero fare inoltre un commento sul paragrafo 10, il cui contenuto adombra , a mio avviso , un ' infelice evoluzione verso la militarizzazione dell ' Unione europea . 
ITALIAN Lo dico anche come rappresentante di un paese non allineato . 
ITALIAN In conclusione , desidero dedicare due parole al paragrafo 11, in cui si parla di un passo positivo verso il necessario coordinamento fiscale in Europa . 
ITALIAN Che cosa significa questa affermazione ? 
ITALIAN In questo contesto , mi preme citare la costituzione svedese , che riconosce " il consolidato diritto del popolo svedese di decidere delle proprie imposte " . 
ITALIAN ( La seduta , sospesa alle 13.50, riprende alle 15.00 ) 
ITALIAN DISCUSSIONE SU PROBLEMI D ' ATTUALITA 
ITALIAN L ' ordine del giorno reca il dibattito su problemi d ' attualità , urgenti e di notevole rilevanza . 
ITALIAN Per un richiamo al Regolamento , ha la parola l ' onorevole Maaten . 
ITALIAN Signora Presidente , vorrei intervenire all ' inizio della discussione su problemi di attualità perché , ai sensi dell ' articolo 46 del Regolamento , penso che sia il momento più opportuno per farlo . 
ITALIAN L ' ordine del giorno prevede una risoluzione su EURO2000 e gli hooligan . 
ITALIAN Sebbene siamo favorevoli a discutere tale problema , il testo contiene alcuni elementi che sono tuttora al vaglio delle autorità giudiziarie dei Paesi Bassi . 
ITALIAN Riteniamo quindi che prendere già una decisione significhi precorrere i risultati del suddetto esame . 
ITALIAN Pertanto , in conformità dell ' articolo 146, propongo di rinviare la discussione sulla risoluzione alla tornata di settembre . 
ITALIAN Il summenzionato articolo prevede che una richiesta di questo tipo debba essere immediatamente posta in votazione . 
ITALIAN Onorevole collega , innanzitutto l ' articolo di cui lei parla fa riferimento esclusivamente ad un gruppo o a 32 deputati . 
ITALIAN Tale articolo inoltre non riguarda direttamente la questione delle urgenze . Il principio stesso delle urgenze prevede che si delibi all ' inizio della sessione per stabilirne l ' ambito , il che è diverso dal rinvio in commissione . 
ITALIAN Se è accettata , dobbiamo andare fino in fondo alla procedura ed è necessario tenere il dibattito . 
ITALIAN Signora Presidente , chiediamo che trasmetta alla onorevole Fontaine , la quale se ne farà carico dinanzi alle Istituzioni competenti , la grande preoccupazione suscitata dalla presenza da oltre due mesi nella baia di Algesiras di un sottomarino nucleare del Regno Unito , l ' HM Tireless , in avaria , che sembra abbia un gravissimo problema nel sistema di raffreddamento . 
ITALIAN Secondo le ultime notizie , pare che lo vogliano riparare sul posto . 
ITALIAN Gli abitanti della zona si oppongono categoricamente , con una risoluzione congiunta di tutti i gruppi politici approvata proprio oggi , a che la riparazione venga effettuata in loco . 
ITALIAN Presentiamo da questa Assemblea una richiesta urgente al governo del Regno Unito affinché rimorchi immediatamente quell ' affare fuori dalla baia e che lo ripari in Inghilterra , dove si suppone che perlomeno ci siano installazioni adatte al caso . 
ITALIAN Onorevole collega , le sue osservazioni saranno comunicate alla onorevole Fontaine che , sono certa , ne terrà conto . 
ITALIAN Egli ha parlato a nome del gruppo ELDR e io mi associo alla richiesta a nome del gruppo EDD . 
ITALIAN No , onorevole Blokland , il Regolamento non prevede che si possa mettere ai voti il rinvio di un ' urgenza . 
ITALIAN La questione delle urgenze è molto particolare , è stata messa ai voti lunedì e l ' Assemblea sovrana ne ha stabilito l ' ambito . 
ITALIAN Dal momento in cui si stabilisce che si tratta di un ' urgenza , non può esserci un rinvio . 
ITALIAN Durante il dibattito si potrà tenere conto delle argomentazioni sviluppate da lei e dall ' onorevole Maaten , ma non posso mettere ai voti il rinvio di questo dibattito . 
ITALIAN Signora Presidente , lei lo interpreta in un modo , ma io ho riletto il testo e non c ' è scritto che sono escluse le discussioni su problemi d ' attualità . 
ITALIAN Su qualsiasi argomento iscritto il lunedì all ' ordine del giorno da parte dell ' Assemblea nel corso della settimana può essere deciso , ad un ' analisi più attenta condotta sulla scorta di nuovi elementi , di toglierlo dall ' ordine del giorno . 
ITALIAN In questo caso ci sono nuovi argomenti . 
ITALIAN Nel frattempo sappiamo che le autorità giudiziarie olandesi stanno compiendo un ' indagine . 
ITALIAN Pertanto mi sembra chiaro che lunedì , quando abbiamo deciso di discutere questo tema , non eravamo a conoscenza di tale fatto . 
ITALIAN Disponiamo di nuove informazioni e dobbiamo tenerne conto . 
ITALIAN Onorevole Blokland , mi sembra che la mia interpretazione corrisponda allo spirito e alla lettera del nostro Regolamento . 
ITALIAN Il Regolamento prevede che l ' ordine del giorn. abbiamo infatti a che fare con la stesura dell ' ordine del giorn. sia stabilito dall ' Assemblea all ' inizio delle sessioni ed è ciò che è stato fatto . 
ITALIAN A prescindere da ciò , nel caso in cui vi siano elementi nuovi , potrete farli presenti nel corso del dibattito e serviranno a chiarire il voto dei nostri colleghi . 
ITALIAN Tuttavia , io mi attengo a questa interpretazione che tiene conto sia del principio dell ' ordine del giorno sia di quello delle urgenze . 
ITALIAN Signora Presidente , intervengo solo per unirmi a quanto ha detto il collega del partito andaluso , dell ' Andalusia , e proporre , come luogo per la riparazione del sottomarino britannico , i giardini di Buckingham Palace dove possono portare detto " mostro " . 
ITALIAN Onorevoli colleghi , la questione del rinvio ha suscitato queste argomentazioni . 
ITALIAN Rimango sulla mia posizione e propongo di passare direttamente al dibattito sulle isole Figi e Salomone , poiché i nostri colleghi lo stanno aspettando . 
ITALIAN Isole Figi e Salomone 
ITALIAN L ' ordine del giorno reca in discussione congiunta le seguenti proposte di risoluzione : 
ITALIAN B5 - 0607 / 2000 dell ' onorevole Speroni , a nome del gruppo TDI , sulle isole Figi ; 
ITALIAN B5 - 0616 / 2000 della onorevole Ludford , a nome del gruppo ELDR , sulla situazione nelle isole Figi e nelle isole Salomone ; 
ITALIAN B5 - 0620 / 2000 degli onorevoli Corrie e Van Hecke , a nome del gruppo PPE - DE , sulla situazione nelle isole Figi e nelle isole Salomone ; 
ITALIAN B5 - 0629 / 2000 dell ' onorevole Marset Campos , a nome del gruppo GUE / NGL , sulla situazione nelle isole Figi e nelle isole Salomone ; 
ITALIAN B5 - 0636 / 2000 dell ' onorevole Lucas , a nome del gruppo Verys / ALE , sulla situazione nelle isole Figi ; 
ITALIAN B5 - 0640 / 2000 dell ' onorevole Lucas , a nome del gruppo Verts / ALE , sulla situazione nelle isole Salomone ; 
ITALIAN B5 - 0644 / 2000 degli onorevoli Van den Berg e Kinnock , a nome del gruppo PSE , sulle isole Figi e le isole Salomone . 
ITALIAN Vediamo infatti che il conflitto in queste isole tra l ' etnia originaria e l ' etnia immigrata è esploso in maniera non molto cruenta , a dire il vero , ma comunque deflagrante . 
ITALIAN Lo stesso sta succedendo nelle vicine isole Salomone , lo stesso sta accadendo in varie parti del mondo ; basti pensare a quello che è successo nella regione dei Grandi Laghi africani , basta pensare a quello che è successo all ' isola di Timor , basta pensare a quello che sta succedendo nelle Molucche , dove viene dimostrato che la convivenza tra comunità con tradizioni , cultura , storia completamente diverse , al di là dei buoni propositi di chi auspica la globalizzazione totale anche sotto questo profilo , in realtà non accade . 
ITALIAN Allora bisogna , secondo me , puntare soprattutto sulla tutela delle etnie indigene , per evitare che i figiani originari facciano la fine degli indios sudamericani , facciano la fine delle popolazioni originarie del Centro e Nordamerica , e fare in modo che la loro cultura venga preservata attraverso un controllo dell ' immigrazione selvaggia , perché quello che succede là non succeda , come purtroppo è già successo nei Balcani , anche nella nostra Europa . 
ITALIAN Signora Presidente , il Parlamento rivolge particolare attenzione a quelle regioni in cui le tensioni etniche provocano conflitti e tentativi di rovesciare la democrazia e lo Stato di diritto . 
ITALIAN Sia nelle isole Figi che nelle isole Salomone il governo democratico , la legge e l ' ordine sono gravemente minacciati . 
ITALIAN Nelle Figi il nostro obiettivo dev ' essere di ripristinare il governo legittimo eletto sulla base della costituzione multirazziale del 1997, che è stata approvata da entrambi i gruppi etnici : i figiani di origine indiana e i figiani indigeni . 
ITALIAN La violenza contro cose e persone deve cessare e gli ostaggi devono essere rilasciati . 
ITALIAN Il governo civile provvisorio instaurato nelle Figi non rispetta né i principi costituzionali né quelli democratici ; esortiamo quindi la Commissione ad avviare con decisione le procedure necessarie a sospendere la cooperazione allo sviluppo con le isole Figi . 
ITALIAN Gli sfortunati abitanti delle Figi guardano all ' Unione europea , faro di democrazia ed uguaglianza razziale , affinché giunga in loro aiuto . 
ITALIAN Signora Presidente , intendo dedicare il mio intervento principalmente alle isole Salomone , ma prima mi permetta di accennare brevemente alle isole Figi ; infatti , il vicepresidente della delegazione ACP - UE di cui faccio parte è uno degli ostaggi e vorrei chiedere di scrivere una lettera di solidarietà alla sua famiglia . 
ITALIAN La delegazione ACP - UE si è recata alle isole Salomone per studiare le tensioni etniche che affliggono quel paese ; dopo i colloqui avuti , è stato subito chiaro che un colpo di Stato era imminente . 
ITALIAN Ma perché si è verificato ? 
ITALIAN Al nostro arrivo abbiamo trovato una situazione di completo vuoto di potere : non vi era alcun dialogo tra le fazioni in conflitto e il parlamento non si riuniva . 
ITALIAN Il 99,9 percento di Guadalcanal è controllato dal gruppo IMF , mentre i malaitani occupano soltanto Honiara : la situazione è insostenibile . 
ITALIAN Poiché erano gli unici a lavorare , adesso a Guadalcanal c ' è il blocco totale di ogni attività sia nelle aree urbane che in quelle rurali . 
ITALIAN 
ITALIAN 
ITALIAN L ' azione svolta dalla onorevole Kinnock e da me ha avuto effetti positivi : siamo riusciti ad avviare il dialogo ; siamo riusciti a far ritirare l ' ultimatum che intimava al Primo ministro di dimettersi entro quarantott ' ore ; abbiamo suggerito di convocare il parlamento per discutere la situazione e il nostro invito è stato accolto . 
ITALIAN Inopinatamente , il capo dell ' opposizione è divenuto ora Primo ministro . 
ITALIAN Tutto ciò è successo perché abbiamo fatto capire che , se fosse prevalsa la forza delle armi , l ' Unione europea avrebbe potuto ritirare i propri aiuti : questi aiuti ammontano al 25 percento del PIL del paese . 
ITALIAN Signora Presidente , onorevoli colleghi , è vero che il Pacifico evoca sempre immagini paradisiache : spiagge , palme da cocco , sole . 
ITALIAN Oggi la realtà è molto più triste , infatti i due colpi di Stato verificatisi recentemente nelle isole Figi rivelano Stati instabili , divisi dalla povertà . 
ITALIAN Oltre all ' indifferenza delle nostre Istituzioni , la cosa incredibile è che la causa di questi conflitti viene sempre ricercata nelle tensioni interetniche . 
ITALIAN Nelle isole Salomone , la maggioranza della popolazione è melanesiana e cristiana ; nelle isole Figi , quasi la metà della popolazione è di origine indiana , ma questa origine risale al secolo scorso . 
ITALIAN Tuttavia , malgrado queste differenze , ciascuno è a casa propria nelle Figi . 
ITALIAN Credo che le cause siano altre , diverse da questi conflitti interetnici . 
ITALIAN Si nega , ad esempio , il ruolo svolto da coloro che traggono vantaggio dai conflitti , ovvero le multinazionali e i politici locali . 
ITALIAN Scagliarsi gli uni contro gli altri è una pratica che permette ai politici di creare uno spazio politico o mantenere il potere . E ' ciò che fa , ad esempio , l ' estrema destra da noi . 
ITALIAN Questa pratica è possibile solo perché la popolazione è povera e non conosce altro . 
ITALIAN Nel caso attuale , i due conflitti avrebbero dovuto permettere ad alcuni di ricominciare o di ottenere un potere che non riuscivano a raggiungere con le elezioni . 
ITALIAN Nelle Figi , il colpo di Stato è stato fomentato da un uomo d ' affari in fallimento che ha approfittato delle sue lontane origini figiane per legittimare la sua azione ; anche il nuovo Primo ministro proviene dal mondo degli affari . 
ITALIAN Nelle isole Salomone , un voto apparente del Parlamento ha portato al potere un nuovo Primo ministro eletto grazie alle armi . 
ITALIAN La risoluzione congiunta è tuttavia troppo moralizzatrice e chiede , di fatto , un ritorno alla situazione precedente . 
ITALIAN Essa non affronta , come troppo spesso accade , le vere cause dei conflitti quali la povertà e il ruolo latente e interessato di attori economici e politici . 
ITALIAN Da questo punto di vista , per essere efficienti , occorre prevenire i nuovi conflitti , incentivando concretamente lo sviluppo dell ' istruzione , dell ' economia locale e della democrazia locale . 
ITALIAN Così facendo riusciremo forse a far cambiare le cose . 
ITALIAN Signora Presidente , intendo parlare delle isole Figi . 
ITALIAN Alcuni giorni fa , un gruppo di figiani di origine indiana , i quali rappresentavano sia quella comunità che la diaspora indiana , hanno visitato il nostro Parlamento per esporci le loro preoccupazioni in merito a questi conflitti . 
ITALIAN Hanno espresso profondi timori per la situazione delle isole Figi , che riveste un grande valore simbolico e che potrebbe ripercuotersi sulla sorte delle comunità indiane in altre parti del mondo ; ma la loro angoscia non riguardava solo la comunità etnica indiana , bensì il destino stesso delle Figi . 
ITALIAN Dal 1997 vige in quel paese una costituzione multirazziale che aveva lo scopo di risolvere i problemi etnici delle isole , tra cui soprattutto la questione agraria ; la costituzione era stata approvata all ' unanimità da un parlamento dominato dal gruppo etnico figiano e aveva ricevuto pure l ' approvazione del Gran consiglio dei capi . 
ITALIAN Per la prospera società multirazziale di queste isole si trattava di una costituzione modello . 
ITALIAN L ' illegalità e la violenza hanno indebolito la costituzione , ma dobbiamo esaminare in maniera più approfondita le cause del conflitto . 
ITALIAN Il nostro Parlamento deve vigilare su ogni manifestazione di violenza e di illegalità che si verifica nei paesi che ricevono i nostri aiuti ; dobbiamo altresì vegliare sulla sorte delle minoranze etniche minacciate . 
ITALIAN I timori che sono stati espressi dai nostri ospiti sono ben concreti . 
ITALIAN Abbiamo la facoltà di sospendere gli aiuti se giungiamo alla conclusione che la situazione delle isole Figi è divenuta inaccettabile . 
ITALIAN Glenys Kinnock ed io , insieme agli altri colleghi che hanno incontrato la comunità etnica indiana , vogliamo contribuire alla soluzione del conflitto . 
ITALIAN Signora Presidente , onorevoli parlamentari , la Commissione osserva con crescente preoccupazione quanto avviene nelle isole Figi dal 18 maggio . 
ITALIAN E ' davvero scoraggiante constatare come si mettano a repentaglio le conquiste di un intero secolo . 
ITALIAN C ' era una costituzione che non si fondava sul razzismo ; ora è stata soppressa . 
ITALIAN Esisteva un governo eletto democraticamente ; è stato abbattuto e sostituito da un governo di transizione civile , ma nominato dai militari . 
ITALIAN Le Figi hanno già subito enormi danni economici . 
ITALIAN Le Figi rischiano di perdere la fiducia degli investitori . 
ITALIAN Guardando alla situazione in un ' ottica politica , le Figi , che orgogliosamente avevano voluto dare il loro nome al nuovo accordo di ventennale collaborazione tra paesi ACP e Unione europea , rischiano di compromettere le loro relazioni con la comunità internazionale . 
ITALIAN Rischiano , addirittura , di essere escluse dal Commonwealth . 
ITALIAN La Commissione sta preparando una proposta indirizzata al Consiglio sull ' applicazione dell ' articolo 366 lettera a ) della Convenzione di Lomé , in quanto ritiene che i principi fondamentali della Convenzion. ovvero la democrazia , lo Stato di diritto e la salvaguardia dei diritti dell ' uom. non siano più garantiti nelle isole Figi . 
ITALIAN Ricordo comunque che questa decisione prevede una consultazione preliminare delle parti . 
ITALIAN Si prenderanno in esame altri provvedimenti o sanzioni solo in una seconda fase , in base all ' esito delle consultazioni e a come questo verrà valutato . 
ITALIAN In questo momento , dunque , è prematuro discutere di altre misure o di sanzioni . 
ITALIAN Qualsiasi risposta dovrà essere attentamente formulata e seguita in modo mirato . 
ITALIAN Dovremo evitare effetti come quelli indotti dal divieto di interscambio imposto dai sindacati in Australia e Nuova Zelanda , ovvero il licenziamento di oltre 4.000 lavoratori dell ' industria dell ' abbigliamento e del turismo . 
ITALIAN Passiamo ora alle isole Salomone . Anche qui la Commissione ha constatato con preoccupazione l ' aggravarsi delle condizioni di sicurezza . 
ITALIAN La Commissione tiene pronti gli strumenti di cui dispone per sostenere il processo di pace non appena la situazione politica e di sicurezza lo consentiranno . 
ITALIAN La discussione congiunta è chiusa . 
ITALIAN La votazione si svolgerà alle 17.30 . 
ITALIAN Tibet 
ITALIAN L ' ordine del giorno reca , in discussione congiunta , le seguenti proposte di risoluzione : 
ITALIAN B5 - 0608 / 2000, presentata dall ' onorevole Pannella e altri a nome del gruppo TDI , sulla necessità di fermare la colonizzazione cinese e adottare un nuovo status per il Tibet ; 
ITALIAN B5 - 0610 / 2000, presentata dalla onorevole Sanders - ten Holte a nome del gruppo ELDR , sull ' urgente necessità di negoziati sino - tibetani in vista dell ' adozione di un nuovo status per il Tibet ; 
ITALIAN B5 - 0617 / 2000, presentata dalla onorevole Muscardini e dall ' onorevole Collins a nome del gruppo UEN , sul Tibet ; 
ITALIAN B5 - 0621 / 2000, presentata dagli onorevoli Thomas Mann e Bowis a nome del gruppo PPE - DE , sul progetto di riduzione della povertà nella Cina occidentale e futuro del Tibet ; 
ITALIAN B5 - 0641 / 2000, presentata dall ' onorevole Messner e dalla onorevole Frassoni a nome del gruppo Verts / ALE , sull ' urgente necessità di negoziati sino - tibetani in vista dell ' adozione di un nuovo status per il Tibet ; 
ITALIAN B5 - 0645 / 2000, presentata dagli onorevoli Sakellariou e Veltroni a nome del gruppo PSE , sul Tibet . 
ITALIAN Signora Presidente , signor Commissario , onorevoli colleghi , ritengo che il testo sul Tibet che ci apprestiamo a votare sia un testo importante , e che oggi abbiamo la possibilità di compiere un progresso significativo in questa battaglia fondamentale . 
ITALIAN E ' una battaglia per la legalità a livello internazionale . 
ITALIAN Il Tibet , invaso nel 1949 dalle truppe cinesi , è da allora occupato e colonizzato dai cinesi . 
ITALIAN Penso che dobbiamo certamente votare compatti per questa risoluzione , ma anche per l ' emendamento presentato dall ' onorevole Mann a nome del gruppo liberale e del gruppo Verde . Con tale emendamento si richiede ai nostri governi di considerare la possibilità di riconoscere il governo tibetano in esilio se , entro tre anni , le autorità cinesi e il governo tibetano in esilio non saranno ancora giunti ad un accordo per una sostanziale autonomia del Tibet . 
ITALIAN Non possiamo più lasciare alla sola buona volont. e in questo caso alla cattiva volont. delle autorità di Pechino la più ampia libertà di non affrontare tale problema ; dobbiamo obbligarle a farlo . 
ITALIAN Mediante l ' azione politica del nostro Parlamento dobbiamo affermare la nostra volontà di trovare una soluzione a questa situazione che perdura da oltre cinquant ' anni . 
ITALIAN Vorrei rivolgere un appello particolare agli amici di sinistra , agli amici socialisti e comunisti : non continuate ad adottare due pesi e due misure ! 
ITALIAN Noi tutti ricordiamo le grandi battaglie per l ' indipendenza dell ' Africa , per la liberazione dell ' Algeria e del Vietnam . 
ITALIAN Stando a quanto ci è dato di constatare oggi , questo paese è ancora nelle mani di un regime totalitario e dittatoriale . 
ITALIAN In questo momento in Tibet è in atto una battaglia non violenta per la democrazia . 
ITALIAN Non vi è alcun motivo per non intervenire ora così come in tanti avevamo fatto in quegli anni . 
ITALIAN La questione del Tibet deve diventare , oggi , un caso di diritto per l ' affermazione del principio della non violenza da parte della comunità internazionale . 
ITALIAN Certo , la Cina è un grande paese che ha diritto alla democrazia , ma questo fatto non può costituire un pretesto per negare ancora il diritto del popolo tibetano a vivere secondo la propria cultura e in piena autonomia nei vari ambiti che regolamentano la vita di un popolo . 
ITALIAN Invito pertanto gli amici socialisti e comunisti a votare a favore della risoluzione e di questo emendamento e a fare in modo che , almeno per una volta , il nostro Parlamento sia in prima linea in questa battaglia per la libertà , per la democrazia e la non violenza . 
ITALIAN Signora Presidente , auguro buon compleanno al Dhalai Lama , anche se non so se per lui si tratti davvero di un giorno felice , perché il più importante contributo che l ' Unione europea può fornire al mondo è quello di battersi per il rispetto dei diritti dell ' uomo e della democrazia , che nel Tibet vengono tuttora calpestati . 
ITALIAN Alla luce di tale considerazione desidero evidenziare quanto segue . 
ITALIAN Primo : com ' è possibile che non vi sia ancora un vero dialogo a livello ufficiale tra governo cinese e governo tibetano in esilio ? 
ITALIAN Tutti i cosiddetti contatti indiretti non portano a nulla . 
ITALIAN Il Parlamento europeo deve assumere un atteggiamento più deciso per sostenere il principio della non violenza , ed è a questo obiettivo che mira la presente risoluzione . 
ITALIAN Secondo : com ' è possibile che un ' istituzione tanto rinomata come la Banca mondiale sia sul punto di finanziare un programma cinese che implica la colonizzazione del Tibet ? 
ITALIAN Bisogna impedire che ciò accada , ed è a questo obiettivo che mira la presente risoluzione . 
ITALIAN Terzo : com ' è possibile che anche l ' Unione europea lasci che nei suoi rapporti con la Cina prevalgano gli interessi economici ? 
ITALIAN Non è possibile che rivolgiamo l ' attenzione al popolo tibetano soltanto quando ci conviene ! 
ITALIAN Signora Presidente , in breve la invito a far sì che si sviluppi un vero dialogo secondo le linee del piano di pace in cinque punti elaborato dal Dhalai Lama : allora sì che sarà un giorno felice per tutto il popolo tibetano ! 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , Commissario Verheugen , onorevoli colleghi , domani la Banca mondiale prenderà una decisione di importanza fondamentale per il Tibet . 
ITALIAN L ' aiuto internazionale dovrebbe attenuare l ' indigenza nella parte occidentale della Cina , e chi non è disposto , in linea di principio , ad aiutare coloro che non sono in grado di aiutare se stessi ? 
ITALIAN Ma con uno spostamento di tale entità i tibetani si ritroverebbero gradualmente ad essere una minoranza nella loro stessa patria , e tutto ciò dopo che in quel paese già da decenni la cultura e i luoghi sacri vengono distrutti e la popolazione viene minacciata e perseguitata ! 
ITALIAN I membri del nostro Tibet - Intergroup e molti altri parlamentari europei quindici giorni fa si sono rivolti al Presidente della Banca mondiale a Washington affinché non venga meno ai principi , riconosciuti dalla stessa Banca mondiale , di tutela dei popoli minacciati . 
ITALIAN Ci siamo rivolti ai Parlamenti nazionali , ai Ministeri delle finanze degli Stati europei e degli Stati Uniti d ' America e di altri continenti , e naturalmente ci siamo rivolti anche al Commissario Chris Patten . 
ITALIAN Abbiamo chiesto con urgenza ai membri del Board della Banca mondiale di eseguire , prima di tutto , un ' attenta analisi della relazione degli ispettori indipendenti . 
ITALIAN Essi infatti si dicono molto preoccupati : questo spostamento di popoli nell ' ambito di un programma di irrigazione sarà giusto dal punto di vista della politica ambientale ed al tempo stesso sarà socialmente sostenibile ? 
ITALIAN Se si devono utilizzare fondi pubblici , è doveroso che anche le motivazioni del progetto siano rese pubbliche . 
ITALIAN Recentemente ho potuto rendermi conto di persona , durante una visita a Pechino , che , resa più forte dalla prevista adesione al WTO , la Cina è sempre più consapevole del suo ruolo di prossima potenza mondiale . 
ITALIAN Questo però deve essere contemporaneamente anche un impegno a comportarsi più responsabilmente di quanto sia avvenuto finora e , per esempio , a mettere in pratica il concetto one Chin. many systems . 
ITALIAN La piena autonomia promessa per il Tibet deve essere finalmente garantita . 
ITALIAN E nel concetto di autonomia rientrano la libertà di religione , la libertà d ' opinione e la libertà di vivere le proprie scelte culturali e sociali . 
ITALIAN Si devono avviare colloqui bilaterali con i responsabili autorizzati : il Dhalai Lama è sempre disponibile . 
ITALIAN Resta sempre valido il suo piano di pace articolato in cinque punti , che testimonia della sua scelta profondamente non violenta . 
ITALIAN A nome del gruppo del PPE e del Tibet - Intergroup mi appello a tutti i membri del Parlamento europeo affinché sostengano la nostra risoluzione . 
ITALIAN Solo una protesta di dimensioni mondiali poco prima della decisione della Banca mondiale , prevista domani , può impedire che la situazione volga al peggio con gravi conseguenze . 
ITALIAN Tashi delek ! . 
ITALIAN Signora Presidente , signor Commissario , onorevoli colleghi , siamo sul punto di votare per la tredicesima volta una risoluzione sul Tibet e , se analizziamo i risultati fin qui ottenuti , dobbiamo constatare che sono oltremodo scarsi . 
ITALIAN Pertanto mi rivolgo al signor Commissario : vorrei che l ' Unione europea con le sue tre forti Istituzioni si indirizzasse all ' opinione pubblica mondiale , alle autorità cinesi e alla Banca mondiale in particolare . 
ITALIAN I colleghi lo hanno già detto : dobbiamo porre fine alla colonizzazione interna , al massacro dell ' identità culturale del popolo tibetano . 
ITALIAN Ciò sarà possibile soltanto se la Banca mondiale cesserà di finanziare proprio il contrario di tutto questo , ossia l ' importazione dei cinesi in Tibet allo scopo di annientare la cultura originale . 
ITALIAN Non possiamo destinare il denaro dei contribuenti a un simile obiettivo ! 
ITALIAN Mi auguro che lei collabori con noi per imprimere una svolta , come richiesto negli emendamenti presentati dai colleghi , una svolta per cui , se entro tre anni non si sarà verificato alcun mutamento , riconosceremo il governo provvisorio del Tibet , invece che continuare a vivere in una situazione di stallo . 
ITALIAN Queste trattative dovrebbero essere fondat. come è già stato ricordat. sui cinque punti del programma del Dhalai Lama , che appoggiamo in tutti i modi e al quale facciamo anche gli auguri per il suo compleanno . 
ITALIAN Signora Presidente , negli ultimi anni abbiamo celebrato il cinquantenario della fine della seconda guerra mondiale , poi quello della fondazione delle Nazioni Unite e dell ' Organizzazione mondiale della sanità e , ancora , il ritorno all ' indipendenza degli Stati baltici dopo cinquant ' anni di dominazione sovietica . Purtroppo però dobbiamo commemorare anche il cinquantenario dell ' illegittima occupazione del Tibet da parte della Cina : cinquanta anni in cui il popolo tibetano ha sofferto l ' oppressione e la repressione del regime cinese . 
ITALIAN Non dobbiamo permettere che tale situazione diventi un fatto compiuto ; da ciò scaturisce l ' emendamento apportato a questa risoluzione per esercitare pressioni sulla Cina , emendamento che sostengo vigorosamente . 
ITALIAN Da ciò scaturisce anche la risoluzione generale che chiede alla Banca mondiale di ritirare il proprio appoggio al nostro cosiddetto progetto , che significherebbe non solo il trasferimento di circa 60.000 cinesi in una zona attualmente popolata da 4.000 tibetani dediti alla pastorizia , ma anche lo sfruttamento delle risorse naturali del Tibet . 
ITALIAN Entrambe queste iniziative sono immorali , entrambe contrastano con il diritto internazionale , a entrambe devono reagire il nostro Parlamento e l ' Unione europea , levandosi in difesa del Tibet e del suo popolo . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , devo iniziare dicendo che intervengo ora a nome della Sinistra verde nordica . 
ITALIAN Noi riteniamo che i tibetani debbano vedersi riconosciuta l ' autonomia cui essi stessi ambiscono . 
ITALIAN Siamo inoltre preoccupati per l ' indisponibilità al dialogo manifestata dalla Cina . 
ITALIAN Mi rivolgo ora al Commissario : spero che la Commissione abbia degli ottimi contatti con i rappresentanti della Banca mondiale . 
ITALIAN La decisione , infatti , va presa già domani . 
ITALIAN Abbiamo quindi pochissimo tempo per cercare di intervenire presso la Banca mondiale , alla quale questa risoluzione , dopo tutto , si rivolge in via prioritaria . 
ITALIAN E ' solitamente difficile influire sulla Banca mondiale . 
ITALIAN Desidero pertanto sapere se sia possibile contattare questa istituzione , oppure se non sia meglio utilizzare le ore notturne per tentare di contattare i nostri esponenti di governo . 
ITALIAN Peraltro , non mi pare che ora il Consiglio sia molto rappresentato . 
ITALIAN Signora Presidente , ho avuto modo di verificare personalmente la situazione in Tibet , una situazione ben più grave , umiliante e penosa di quello che si può esprimere in quest ' Aula , così come in qualsiasi altro convegno . 
ITALIAN I cinesi , in questi ultimi quarant ' anni , hanno negato veramente con la forza la libertà ai tibetani , hanno annullato l ' identità di questo popolo e , ancora di più , hanno calpestato i diritti umani e soprattutto la dignità delle persone . 
ITALIAN Voglio però essere chiara fino in fondo , anche a rischio , forse , di sembrare polemica . 
ITALIAN Bisogna fare attenzione alle ipocrisie ; è infatti inutile sottoscrivere , come oggi stiamo facendo , una risoluzione comune piena di buoni principi , belle parole e anche piena di sdegno e poi lasciare che le massime autorità cinesi , magari per motivi economici e commerciali , vengano accolte con i massimi onori dai nostri ministri o dai sindaci delle varie capitali europee , come avverrà , per esempio , proprio domani a Roma , dove Rutelli , che è sindaco di Roma nonché eurodeputato , riceverà ufficialmente il Primo ministro cinese o comunque una delegazione . 
ITALIAN Credo che , se continueremo a sacrificare i principi e i diritti in nome dell ' economia , sarà ben difficile , al di là delle dichiarazioni di principio che si possono fare nelle aule parlamentari , arrivare a un ' autentica soluzione per il popolo tibetano . 
ITALIAN Signora Presidente , come il Parlamento , anche la Commissione nutre profonda preoccupazione per la situazione dei diritti umani in Tibet . 
ITALIAN In particolare siamo in ansia per il rispetto dell ' identità culturale , linguistica e religiosa della regione autonoma del Tibet da parte delle autorità cinesi . 
ITALIAN Abbiamo affrontato ripetutamente questo tema nell ' ambito del dialogo bilaterale con la Cina sul tema dei diritti dell ' uomo . 
ITALIAN Più esattamente , l ' Unione europea ha esortato la Cina a riprendere quanto prima le relazioni con il Dhalai Lama . 
ITALIAN Riteniamo infatti che un dialogo diretto fra Dhalai Lama e autorità cinesi sia l ' unica strada realistica che possa portare a una soluzione pacifica e duratura della questione tibetana . 
ITALIAN Per quanto riguarda poi la cooperazione , l ' Unione europea ritiene che il sostegno di progetti di aiuto sia nell ' interesse della popolazione del Tibet purché il gruppo etnico tibetano tragga diretto profitto da questi progetti ed abbia la priorità nella gestione degli stessi . 
ITALIAN In passato si è verificato proprio questo , con la relativa assicurazione ufficiale delle autorità cinesi . 
ITALIAN Per quanto riguarda il progetto della Banca mondiale , posso solo comunicarvi che la Commissione non vi partecipa . 
ITALIAN Non ritengo pertanto che , arrivati ormai all ' ultimo momento , noi possiamo influenzare molto la situazione . 
ITALIAN Se c ' è ancora qualche possibilità d ' influenza è solo da parte degli Stati membri . 
ITALIAN Diritti dell ' uomo 
ITALIAN Signora Presidente , signor Commissario , si può dire molto su questa vicenda . 
ITALIAN In primo luogo , spero soprattutto che il Consiglio e la Commissione si attivino affinché questo tema sia affrontato in seno al Consiglio di sicurezza , che a fine mese discuterà del piano d ' azione relativo ai bambini nei conflitti armati . 
ITALIAN In secondo luogo , oggi abbiamo potuto notare con soddisfazione che si tenta di giungere a una soluzione comune almeno per quanto attiene all ' ennesimo conflitto in cui sono coinvolti bambini soldato : mi riferisco alla cosiddetta " risoluzione sui diamanti " all ' esame del Consiglio di sicurezza . 
ITALIAN In terzo luogo , possiamo constatare di avere compiuto alcuni progressi generici per quanto riguarda il problema dei bambini soldato . 
ITALIAN Esiste infatti il protocollo aggiuntivo volontario contro il fenomeno dei bambini soldato , e poi ci sono ancora le attività in corso in Africa . 
ITALIAN Chiedo all ' Aula di appoggiare la risoluzione . 
ITALIAN Mi auguro inoltre che anche l ' Unione europea affronti congiuntamente questo problema in seno al Consiglio di sicurezza a fine mese , in occasione del seguito dato alla discussione generale sui bambini nei conflitti armati . 
ITALIAN Signora Presidente , in particolare la situazione nella regione dell ' Uganda settentrionale e del Sudan meridionale dà in qualche modo l ' immagine del dramma dei bambini - soldato . 
ITALIAN Il conflitto armato , è in questa regione , una costante di questi ultimi trent ' anni ; la società civile è stata completamente devastata e , per più di dodici anni , vari gruppi di ribelli hanno compiuto stragi tra le popolazioni dell ' Uganda settentrionale . 
ITALIAN Le loro vittime preferite sono stati i bambini e gli adolescenti , perchè più vulnerabili e influenzabili . 
ITALIAN Ad oggi , circa il 60 percento dei soldati della Lord ' s Resistance Army sono bambini al di sotto dei sedici anni . 
ITALIAN La strategia è appunto quella di manipolarli e di costringerli con brutalità , cosicché a loro volta possano uccidere e torturare altri . 
ITALIAN Le ragazze adolescenti vengono date ai ribelli come mogli , ma quello che soprattutto va rimarcato è che l ' atteggiamento dell ' LRA non è affatto mutato , neanche dopo gli accordi di Nairobi tra Uganda e Sudan dello scorso dicembre . 
ITALIAN Ho avuto occasione , nei giorni scorsi , di parlare con una delle ragazze che è scappata dai campi del Sudan meridionale e che ha confermato che l ' LRA non ha alcuna intenzione di mutare la propria posizione . 
ITALIAN Questo è dimostrato anche dal fatto che oggi si sono celebrati in Uganda i funerali di John Baptista Ochaia , che è il rappresentante del presidente del distretto di Kitgum , morto giusto l ' altro ieri a seguito di ferite riportate in un ' imboscata dell ' LRA . 
ITALIAN E ' inaccettabile , pertanto , che vi sia un atteggiamento da parte delle autorità europee e da parte di molti enti commerciali europei quasi di complicità con questa situazione , senza voler in qualche modo rompere il cerchio che sta rubando il destino di una generazione . 
ITALIAN Signora Presidente , onorevoli colleghi , le guerre sono sempre orribili e le guerre civili sono ancora più spaventose . 
ITALIAN Ma servirsi di bambini per combattere , per uccidere o farsi uccidere oltrepassa ogni limite di barbarie e di orrore . 
ITALIAN La Lord ' s Resistance Army , l ' organizzazione della resistenza armata , non esita a rapire bambini di sette anni , a sottoporli a inaudite brutalità per insegnare loro a battersi e a seminare il terrore tra gli abitanti dei villaggi , così come non esita a violentare donne e ragazze . 
ITALIAN Bisogna sapere che questi fanciulli , se sopravvivono , sono segnati per il resto della loro vita . 
ITALIAN Occorrono tempo , pazienza e amore per ridare loro un po ' di speranza . 
ITALIAN Per questo motivo è necessario accrescere l ' aiuto e il sostegno all ' UNICEF , che ha predisposto un programma d ' azione per permettere ai bambini di condurre nuovamente una vita normale . 
ITALIAN Signora Presidente , dobbiamo smetterla di tergiversare : il Sudan non deve più sostenere l ' LRA . 
ITALIAN E ' una forma di complicità che rende quel paese altrettanto colpevole . 
ITALIAN Il Parlamento deve fare pressione sul governo ugandese affinché trovi una soluzione pacifica al conflitto che ha luogo nel nord del paese e che , in quindici anni , ha fatt. tengo a ricordarl. centomila morti . 
ITALIAN Tutta la popolazione lo attende e tutti i bambini lo sperano . 
ITALIAN Il Consiglio di sicurezza deve ascoltare questo appello . 
ITALIAN Spero che la Commissione e gli Stati membri vengano così incitati ad agire davvero in questo campo . 
ITALIAN Queste denunce sono corroborate da Amnesty International , che ha chiarito come alcuni introiti petroliferi siano impiegati per finanziare la guerra civile in corso nel Sudan meridionale . 
ITALIAN Occorre fare pressioni sulle compagnie petrolifere e sugli investitori internazionali . 
ITALIAN E occorre , come chiede il paragrafo 8 della risoluzione , esortare con determinazione queste società a cessare le loro attività nel Sudan sino a quando non sarà raggiunta una soluzione pacifica al conflitto . 
ITALIAN Signora Presidente , innanzitutto desidero esprimere la mia riconoscenza al collega Van Hecke e a sua moglie Els De Temmerman per l ' impegno profuso al fine di pubblicare , a livello europeo , tutto ciò che si sa sulla questione dei bambini soldato nell ' Uganda settentrionale . 
ITALIAN Ciò che è evidente è che non si è riusciti ad attuare in misura sufficiente l ' accordo di Nairobi del 1999 . 
ITALIAN Così passiamo al problema dell ' influenza dell ' Unione europea e della nostra disponibilità ad agire assieme in quanto Stati membri compiendo un passo comune . 
ITALIAN Vorrei sapere dal Commissario Verheugen se condivide il punto sottolineato con grande chiarezza nella presente risoluzione , ossia il blocco immediato degli investimenti relativi al petrolio e agli oleodotti in Sudan . 
ITALIAN Se esercitiamo pressioni a favore della pacificazione e assicuriamo il controllo nella regione settentrionale del paese , possiamo dare concreto avvio ad una politica estera che coniughi sia la parte concernente gli aiuti sia la parte estera sia la parte commerciale . 
ITALIAN E ' auspicabile con la massima urgenza un ' azione di questo tipo . 
ITALIAN In questo momento assistiamo ad un aumento delle cifre e degli esempi e nel contempo rileviamo che stiamo esercitando troppo poco potere , mentre in quell ' area disponiamo in effetti di più potere di quello che abbiamo finora utilizzato . 
ITALIAN Passo così al punto più ampio relativo alle Nazioni Unite . 
ITALIAN In maggio l ' Assemblea generale ha approvato il protocollo . 
ITALIAN A tale riguardo possiamo vantare un buono stato di servizio . 
ITALIAN Sarebbe bello se potessimo intervenire con un unico volto ed un ' unica voce . 
ITALIAN Vorrei sapere dal Commissario Verheugen se ritiene che in luglio vi siano buone opportunità di successo . 
ITALIAN Signora Presidente , ero in Uganda nel gennaio scorso quando sono state liberate alcune delle ragazzine che erano state rapite e costrette ad arruolarsi nell ' LRA . 
ITALIAN Molte di loro hanno perso ogni contatto con le proprie famiglie e non fanno ritorno a casa da molti anni ; in seguito agli stupri subiti sono diventate madri a loro volta , e ciò le emargina ulteriormente dalle comunità dalla quale sono state brutalmente strappate . 
ITALIAN Potremo continuare in eterno ad emettere risoluzioni eleganti ed elaborate , ma finché la Comunità europea non riuscirà ad affrontare efficacemente i problemi dei nostri bambini , non potremo levare la nostra voce su questo tema . 
ITALIAN Molte delle nostre politiche riguardano i diritti e gli interessi dei bambini , eppure questa settimana il Presidente Prodi ha dichiarato di non ritenere necessaria un ' unità speciale dedicata ai diritti dei bambini nell ' ambito della Comunità . 
ITALIAN Questo indebolirà la nostra posizione in occasione del Vertice speciale dell ' ONU sui bambini che si terrà l ' anno prossimo , e nel corso del quale si dedicherà particolare attenzione al problema dei bambini soldato . 
ITALIAN Situazione nelle isole Molucche 
ITALIAN Dopo un periodo relativamente tranquillo , il recente arrivo di alcune migliaia di combattenti della jihad che mirano ad islamizzare le Molucche ha portato ad una nuova escalation di violenze . 
ITALIAN La pluriennale coesistenza pacifica di musulmani e cristiani sembra definitivamente cessata . 
ITALIAN Non intendo passare sotto silenzio il coraggioso atteggiamento del Presidente Wahid . 
ITALIAN La scorsa settimana egli ha persino osato criticare la posizione di alcuni deputati . 
ITALIAN Se dipendesse dal Presidente indonesiano , potremmo sperare in un futuro pacifico nelle Molucche . 
ITALIAN Occorrono ancora molti sforzi per eliminare gli elementi fondamentalisti da tutti i raggruppamenti religiosi . 
ITALIAN Desidero sottoporre al governo indonesiano alcune raccomandazioni concrete . 
ITALIAN Innanzitutto bisogna opporsi con la massima decisione , mediante severi controlli di frontiera , all ' arrivo di combattenti e di armi . 
ITALIAN Inoltre va ripresa in considerazione l ' opportunità di inviare truppe d ' intervento internazionali . 
ITALIAN Sembra che i profondi contrasti all ' interno di esercito e polizia impediscano di giungere ad una conclusione autonoma dei conflitti in Indonesia . 
ITALIAN Infine vorrei richiamare l ' attenzione sulle vittime di questi conflitti , i comuni cittadini . 
ITALIAN Non dobbiamo occuparci soltanto di individuare i colpevoli del conflitto , bensì anche e soprattutto di fornire aiuti adeguati ai cittadini in fuga . 
ITALIAN La mancanza di interessi politici ed economici in quella regione non deve ridurre l ' entità dei nostri aiuti ; si tratta di lenire gravi sofferenze , che nelle Molucche non mancano di certo . 
ITALIAN I sanguinosi contrasti tra musulmani e cristiani mettono in pericolo la sicurezza nelle Molucche . 
ITALIAN Migliaia di persone sono state uccise o sono fuggite e anche il recente e fragile processo di democratizzazione , avviato con tante ambizioni dal governo di Wahid , è a rischio . 
ITALIAN In qualità di eurodeputato ho avuto modo di rilevare in loco , durante una visita compiuta assieme alla delegazione di osservatori , quanto possano essere terribili le conseguenze di tutto ciò Dobbiamo renderci conto che la violenza nelle Molucche comporta un pericolo per la stabilità della regione . 
ITALIAN Pertanto è importante che la comunità internazionale offra immediatamente aiuti finanziari e morali per contribuire a risolvere i problemi in Indonesia . 
ITALIAN La comunità internazionale ha inoltre il dovere di seguire costantemente e con la massima attenzione la situazione locale e di aiutare , per quanto possibile , il governo a porre fine a questa tragedia umana . 
ITALIAN Signora Presidente , in qualità di relatrice della commissione per gli affari esteri sull ' Indonesia ho esitato al momento di presentare la risoluzione , perché quest ' autunno avremo certamente un ' importante discussione sui rapporti tra Unione europea ed Indonesia . 
ITALIAN La situazione nelle Molucche è però così grave che è davvero necessario trattare con urgenza questo argomento . 
ITALIAN In quell ' area , dopo alcuni mesi di tranquillità , si è assistito nelle ultime settimane ad una recrudescenza delle violenze ; di nuovo sono state uccise decine di persone , di nuovo migliaia di persone si sono date alla fuga . 
ITALIAN Il dramma dell ' imbarcazione stracolma di profughi provenienti da Duma sull ' isola di Halmahera è probabilmente costato la vita a cinquecento persone . 
ITALIAN Ieri due quartieri di Ambon sono stati rasi al suolo da incendi appiccati da combattenti della jihad . 
ITALIAN Nell ' area si sono finora registrati più di tremila morti e centomila profughi . 
ITALIAN E ' una catastrofe e molte famiglie molucchesi che risiedono nei Paesi Bassi vivono in uno stato di profonda preoccupazione o dolore . 
ITALIAN A quanto sembra , non sono loro bensì le forze che si oppongono al governo ad aver causato l ' attuale situazione nelle Molucche . 
ITALIAN Riteniamo che il governo indonesiano debba intervenire con maggiore decisione al fine di tutelare gli abitanti delle Molucche . 
ITALIAN Soprattutto riteniamo che l ' Unione europea debba assumere un atteggiamento chiaro , così come gli Stati Uniti , e che l ' Unione europea debba fornire aiuto alle vittime di questi conflitti . 
ITALIAN Signora Presidente , i nostri colleghi del gruppo Verde / Alleanza libera europea hanno presentato una serie di emendamenti che forse sono animati da buone intenzioni , ma che a mio parere sono controproducenti , in quanto potrebbero fare il gioco delle forze che si oppongono al governo in carica e che contribuiscono a fomentare le provocazioni in atto nelle Molucche . 
ITALIAN Pertanto respingo l ' emendamento all ' articolo 7 a ) e invito i colleghi degli altri gruppi a seguire il mio esempio . 
ITALIAN L ' aspetto più importante è però rappresentato da un intervento più attivo da parte dell ' Unione europea . 
ITALIAN La risoluzione lancia un appello in tal senso e auspico che la Commissione risponda in maniera positiva a questo invito . 
ITALIAN Signora Presidente , onorevoli colleghi , è sempre più evidente che la violenza nelle Molucche non è provocata da un conflitto caotico e spontaneo sorto tra la popolazione locale , tra musulmani e cristiani locali , bensì è una brutale lotta per il potere e un conflitto ben orchestrato tra parti dell ' esercito , tra il governo e i suoi oppositori a scapito della popolazione del luogo . 
ITALIAN 
ITALIAN Da un lato c ' è la Laskar Jihad , un gruppo di musulmani fanatici che conta sul sostegno di parte dell ' esercito ; dall ' altro reparti speciali della polizia che appoggiano i cristiani : in altre parole , l ' apparato di sicurezza che dovrebbe garantire la stabilità è diviso tra le due fazioni . 
ITALIAN Il messaggio che , a mio giudizio , il Parlamento europeo dovrebbe inviare al Presidente Wahi. e in tal senso spero di poter tranquillizzare la onorevole Maij - Wegge. è che da un canto manteniamo un atteggiamento critico per quanto concerne i progressi e la velocità a cui vengono attuate le riforme , nonché in merito alla situazione relativa ai diritti dell ' uomo e alla maniera in cui il governo protegge i cittadini nelle Molucche ; dall ' altro lo appoggiamo nella sua lotta contro quelle parti dell ' esercito che cercano di mettere a repentaglio le riforme democratiche , nella sua lotta contro personaggi quali Amien Rais , il Presidente del Congresso del popolo che , ad esempio , ha definito i giovani aderenti alla Laskar Jihad " cuore della nazione " . 
ITALIAN In tal senso Wahid merita il nostro appoggio , ma voglio che conserviamo un atteggiamento critico per quanto riguarda quello che ancora non va in Indonesia . 
ITALIAN Signora Presidente , a nome del gruppo PSE appoggio quanto affermato dalla onorevole Maij - Weggen . 
ITALIAN In questo momento è essenziale dare il nostro sostegno al governo Wahid . 
ITALIAN Tale sostegno significa anch. penso che si tratti di una posizione ragionevole della Commissione e del Consigli. ricercare esplicitamente mezzi per supportare il governo nel suo tentativo di pacificazione e intervenire in maniera attiva , ed anche noi lanciamo un appello in questo senso . 
ITALIAN Anche noi conserviamo un atteggiamento assai critico nei riguardi di quanto avviene in quell ' area e siamo molto preoccupati anche per la comunità molucchese che vive nei Paesi Bassi , per i sentimenti e l ' ansia che prova . 
ITALIAN Chiediamo che a Wahid sia dato l ' appoggio di cui ha bisogno , perché nel momento in cui si offrono osservatori internazionali o altro al di fuori del controllo del Presidente , si interviene e si mina il suo potere . 
ITALIAN In tal senso sono nettamente favorevole alla posizione del gruppo PPE e lancio un appello all ' Assemblea affinché venga adottato un approccio in conformità del quale esprimiamo profonda preoccupazione , grande disponibilità a dare il nostro sostegno , ma attraverso Wahid , avanzando sì delle richieste , ma attraverso il Presidente , perché è lui la carta che dobbiamo giocare in questo momento . 
ITALIAN Si tratta , infatti , di una situazione complicata , con molti morti , che merita la seguente riflessione : perché comunità che convivevano in modo relativamente pacifico hanno subito quest ' improvvisa evoluzione sfociata in un tale livello di tensione e di minacce ? 
ITALIAN Ritengo che dietro queste azioni si stiano muovendo alcune forze e la somiglianza che si nota fra quello che accade oggi nelle Molucche e quello che succedeva ieri a Timor est è molto significativa . 
ITALIAN In effetti , dietro questi movimenti ci sono delle forze che vogliono sabotare gli sforzi di democratizzazione del presidente Wahid , forze che dobbiamo capire e combattere . 
ITALIAN Pena di morte negli Stati Uniti 
ITALIAN Signora Presidente , nella risoluzione sulla pena di morte che abbiamo concordato con gli altri gruppi , abbiamo chiesto al governatore della Virginia di risparmiare la vita di un condannato a morte . 
ITALIAN Nell ' elenco dei destinatari , a cui va la nostra risoluzione , è stato omesso per errore il nome del governatore della Virginia ; la prego se vorrà disporre , nel testo della nostra risoluzione , alla fine , di aggiungere il nome del governatore della Virginia , cui va appunto la nostra petizione . 
ITALIAN Certo , onorevole collega , ha perfettamente ragione . 
ITALIAN Nel testo della risoluzione si fa riferimento a questo Stato . 
ITALIAN E ' necessario , dal punto di vista tecnico , che la risoluzione sia inviata al governatore della Virginia , ed essa sarà votata con questa modifica . 
ITALIAN Sappiamo che la Commissione per i diritti umani delle Nazioni Unite ha decretato , nell ' aprile dello scorso anno , una moratoria . 
ITALIAN Quest ' anno , tale richiesta è stata ribadita . 
ITALIAN E ' stato inoltre chiesto a tutti gli Stati in cui ancora vige la pena di morte di ridurre progressivamente il numero di reati per i quali viene comminata la pena capitale . 
ITALIAN Disponiamo di dati davvero inquietanti per quanto concerne il numero di persone ancora in attesa di esecuzione negli Stati Uniti . 
ITALIAN Stando alle informazioni in mio possesso , si tratterebbe di 3670 persone . 
ITALIAN Nella risoluzione , noi poniamo l ' accento sull ' incertezza del diritto che aleggia intorno ai casi in esame . 
ITALIAN Vi è pertanto motivo di esigere che ogni caso sia oggetto di un ' indagine ; ossia , che vengano passati in rassegna i casi di tutte le persone in attesa di esecuzione per verificare , per esempio , se abbiano ottenuto un processo equo . 
ITALIAN Ecco perché occorre una moratoria su tutti i casi , anche su quelli non menzionati nella risoluzione . 
ITALIAN Possiamo inoltre constatare con fiducia che la questione della pena di morte negli Stati Uniti ha ottenuto un peso politico completamente inedito . 
ITALIAN Valuto positivamente anche il lavoro svolto dalle organizzazioni per i diritti umani per dare risalto a questo problema . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , signor Commissario , onorevoli colleghi , come ha detto la onorevole Thors , la nostra Assemblea sostiene unanimemente questa risoluzione . 
ITALIAN Dobbiamo porci alcune domande a proposito dell ' azione dell ' Unione europea e della sua capacità di portare avanti , a livello delle Nazioni Unite e della comunità internazionale , tale iniziativa a favore di una moratoria internazionale . 
ITALIAN Conosciamo le difficoltà che le nostre Istituzioni incontrano , essenzialmente a causa del loro carattere molto complesso , soprattutto in politica estera , per la quale sono responsabili un Commissario , un Alto rappresentante e quindici Ministri degli affari esteri . 
ITALIAN Per evitare che si riproponga lo scacco dello scorso anno alle Nazioni Unite , è urgente coordinare l ' azione dell ' Unione europea . 
ITALIAN Ho presentato quindi un emendamento per chiedere che questa politica per l ' istituzione di una moratoria universale sia coordinata , a livello delle Nazioni Unite , dall ' Alto rappresentante per la politica estera e la sicurezza comune . 
ITALIAN Invito i colleghi a sostenere gli emendamenti che vanno in tal senso . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , colleghi , stiamo chiedendo in questa sede al governatore della Virginia di risparmiare la vita di un condannato a morte probabilmente innocente , Derek Rocco Barnabei . 
ITALIAN Mentre discutiamo di questa nostra risoluzione , in una cella della morte dello stesso Stato , stanno sterilizzando gli aghi per l ' iniezione letale con cui verrà ucciso , tra qualche ora , Michael Clagget , probabilmente colpevole di omicidi plurimi perpetrati anni fa . 
ITALIAN Non so più quante risoluzioni abbiamo approvato nelle ultime due legislature nel vano tentativo di por fine , negli Stati Uniti e altrove , alla pena di morte ; certo è che molte altre esecuzioni , a ritmi sempre più sostenuti , verranno poste in atto entro agosto in Virginia e in altri Stati , primo tra tutti il Texas , il cui governator. quasi certamente il futuro Presidente degli Stati Uniti d ' Americ. detiene un primato assoluto , quello di avere messo a morte 132 esseri umani negli ultimi cinque anni . 
ITALIAN Non so se George W . Bush meni gran vanto di questo primato , ma s. perché me l ' ha scritto lui stesso in una lettera del 22 marz. che egli è certo di assolvere serenamente ai supremi compiti di una giustizia equa e senza errori . 
ITALIAN Nella risoluzione all ' esame di questo Parlamento abbiamo preso atto del nuovo dibattito in corso negli Stati Uniti : non certo sull ' abolizione della pena capitale ma su una moratoria che porti ad una sua gestione più certa , ma non meno spietata . 
ITALIAN Forse abbiamo fatto bene , ma temo che tutti questi nostri tentativ. come del resto l ' ha scritto recentemente il quotidiano statunitense Herald Tribun. siano destinati a rimanere flatus vocis , lettera morta , e allora , cari colleghi , forse è giunto il momento non certo di boicottaggi e sanzioni , che aborriamo , ma ad esempio di promuovere il turismo europeo solo in quella dozzina di Stati d ' America che non praticano la pena di morte . 
ITALIAN Il rischio di ritorsioni è grave , gravissimo : se rinunzieremo a Donald Duck e a Disneyworld in Florida , avremo il boicottaggio americano della Gioconda al Louvre . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , gli Stati Uniti sono , lo ricordiamo , il paese che da più tempo dispone di una dichiarazione dei diritti consolidata e applicabile in sede giudiziaria . 
ITALIAN E ' perciò una terribile ironia che gli Stati Uniti siano uno dei pochi paesi del mondo sviluppato a mantenere e soprattutto a praticare la pena di morte . 
ITALIAN Oggi abbiamo davanti a noi il caso di Derek Rocco Barnabei : ogni essere umano gode di inalienabili diritti personali , e per questo va difeso . 
ITALIAN Chiediamo che a Barnabei venga risparmiata la vita ; egli è anche un simbolo di una prassi a nostro avviso abominevole che , come sappiamo , è adottata in diverse parti degli Stati Uniti . 
ITALIAN Personalmente amo molto gli Stati Uniti e vari aspetti del loro stile di vita ; ho visitato spesso la facoltà di giurisprudenza dell ' Università del Texas ed altre facoltà di legge negli Stati Uniti . 
ITALIAN Li ammiro moltissimo , ma è per me un dolore constatare con quale frequenza il Texas applichi la pena di morte e ascoltare il governatore di questo Stato che se ne vanta nel corso della campagna presidenziale . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , l ' urgenza della nostra risoluzione è motivata dal caso di Derek Rocco Bernabei . 
ITALIAN In questo caso specifico ci sono fondati dubbi , anche nell ' opinione pubblica americana , che ci sia stato un errore giudiziario . 
ITALIAN E ' ovvio che quando si tratta di pena di morte , l ' errore giudiziario è particolarmente grave ; non si dimentichi che errori giudiziari in casi analoghi sono stati riconosciuti e , non per caso , si trattava di persone che non avevano potuto permettersi degli avvocati costosi . 
ITALIAN Credo che anche le facoltà di diritto degli Stati Uniti funzionino bene perché gli avvocati sono molto ben pagati , ma ben pagati da coloro che hanno i soldi per permetterseli . 
ITALIAN Dunque , chiediamo la sospensione di questa sentenza , chiediamo che la Presidenza del Parlament. tenuto conto anche del documento firmato da numerosissimi colleghi in questi giorn. scriva direttamente alle autorità competenti per richiamare , in modo particolarmente pressante , l ' attenzione su questo tema e poi , naturalmente , che si abolisca la pena di morte negli Stati Uniti , verso i quali la nostra ammirazione per tanti aspetti è molto pronunciata : proprio per questo è tanto più scandaloso vederli mantenere questo rituale barbarico . 
ITALIAN Hooligan 
ITALIAN All ' insegna di questo slogan Belgio e Paesi Bassi hanno organizzato nelle scorse tre settimane Euro 2000 . 
ITALIAN Alcuni , fra cui anche degli europarlamentari , cercano di minimizzare l ' accaduto . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , a mio giudizio ci sono però dei limiti per quanto riguarda gli elevati costi sociali legati al fenomeno degli hooligan . 
ITALIAN Non è possibile che un paese assuma per dei giorni l ' aspetto di uno Stato di polizia a causa di un campionato di calcio . 
ITALIAN In Belgio sono stati impiegati in media 1500 gendarmi per partita , con l ' aggiunta di centinaia di poliziotti locali . 
ITALIAN E ' ora che i governi nazionali adottino misure preventive per far stare a casa lo zoccolo duro degli hooligan . 
ITALIAN La Germania ha dato al riguardo il buon esempio . 
ITALIAN Concretamente bisogna imporre un divieto di viaggio e di espatrio ai cosiddetti tifosi che siano già stati arrestati in passato in quanto coinvolti nella violenza negli stadi . 
ITALIAN Pertanto non si tratta in primo luogo di una questione di maggiori o minori controlli alle frontiere , ma di una cooperazione valida e coerente tra le forze di polizia . 
ITALIAN Dobbiamo trarre le debite conclusioni da quanto accaduto a Bruxelles e Charleroi . 
ITALIAN Per arginare questa assurda violenza sono necessari più che mai severi provvedimenti e una stretta collaborazione . 
ITALIAN Il fenomeno degli hooligan ha superato ogni limite , in senso sia letterale che figurato . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , troppe tragedie negli stadi e fuori di essi : fenomeni che sono segnali di un disequilibrio e di un disagio sociale individuale , di una cultura della forza dove la ragione si perde e prevale la violenza . 
ITALIAN La risoluzione del Parlamento ribadisce le proprie preoccupazioni per l ' ampliamento del fenomeno degli hooligans e chiede misure di prevenzione , alle quali mi associo . 
ITALIAN Ma proprio in questa situazione è indispensabile che le forze dell ' ordine , nel loro difficile compito , non perdano anch ' esse la ragione . 
ITALIAN Vorrei esprimere qui la mia protesta per i comportamenti delle forze dell ' ordine olandesi nei confronti di una troupe di giornalisti italiani che riprendevano le sofferenze di un gruppo di disabili portati a braccia sugli spalti perché non vi erano sufficienti posti a loro disposizione . 
ITALIAN I giornalisti sono stati impediti nello svolgimento delle loro funzioni , sono stati picchiati , buttati a terra e fermati . 
ITALIAN Abbiamo visto nel filmato , trasmesso questa mattina qui al Parlamento , immagini che non lasciano dubbio sulla precisa volontà di impedire la libertà della stampa ; vi sono interpretazioni diverse sull ' evento e per questo chiediamo , da parte delle autorità olandesi , un ' indagine per definirne la responsabilità e vogliamo che episodi di questo genere non abbiano mai più a ripetersi . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , il titolo della discussione non è " Hooligan " , ma " Euro 2000 " , e mi sembra perfetto . 
ITALIAN Tutti avevano tanta paura di possibili violenze e situazioni pericolose . 
ITALIAN In realtà , il tutto si è trasformato su ampia scala in una grande e riuscitissima festa e giustamente la risoluzione sottolinea che ci congratuliamo con le autorità olandesi e belghe per tale successo . 
ITALIAN C ' è poi un ristretto gruppo di hooligan attivi già da tempo e che mira a guastare simili feste . 
ITALIAN In questo caso ci è riuscito soltanto in minima parte , solo su alcuni punti . 
ITALIAN Ciò costa molto denaro , è spiacevole e pertanto diamo il nostro appoggio alla risoluzione . 
ITALIAN Passiamo al terzo punto : l ' incidente italiano . 
ITALIAN Ciò che è evidente , è che i colleghi sono stati informati da diverse fonti su quanto avvenuto nello stadio di Rotterdam e di conseguenza alcuni hanno l ' impressione che la situazione sia del tutto sfuggita di mano , che si tratti di un fatto molto grave ed è in tale prospettiva che si sono formati un ' opinione ; altri invece , sulla scorta di altre informazioni , hanno l ' impressione che la situazione sia , sì , sfuggita di mano , ma non in maniera così grave . 
ITALIAN Ciò che reputo fondamental. e parlo in qualità di olandese che ovviamente avrebbe desiderato diventare campione d ' Europa , e colgo l ' occasione per congratularmi con i francesi - , ciò che avrei voluto e lo dico anche rivolgendomi ai miei connazionali è che , se si verificano dei fatti per cui alcuni colleghi ricavano dalle immagini l ' impressione che ci sia stato qualcosa che non andava , allora : a ) non ci comportiamo come se ciò riguardi l ' intera manifestazione di Euro 2000 e b ) non ci comportiamo come se ciò abbia mandato a monte la festa . 
ITALIAN Dobbiamo invece riconoscere che è accaduto qualcosa e che vogliamo conoscere i fatti . 
ITALIAN Pertanto sono favorevole a che le autorità olandesi procedano ad un ' indagine approfondita . 
ITALIAN Per fortuna il Primo ministro Kok lo ha promesso ed è su tale base che intendo formare il mio giudizio finale . 
ITALIAN Desidero , come ovvio , sin d ' ora esprimere la mia simpatia e la mia partecipazione ai colleghi italiani , ma per formulare un giudizio definitivo intendo attendere di conoscere i fatti . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , premetto anzitutto che quest ' argomento mi tocca molto da vicino : infatti ho cominciato ad arbitrare ai massimi livelli diciotto anni fa , e sono un tesserato della Federazione calcio inglese . Vorrei inoltre congratularmi con la Francia , che ha ottenuto una fantastica vittoria ai campionati europei di quest ' anno e infine , sia pure a malincuore , congratularmi con la Germania cui è stata assegnata l ' organizzazione della Coppa del mondo del 2006 . 
ITALIAN Mi preme soprattutto che il nostro Parlamento condanni con estrema severità gli hooligan , tutti gli hooligan , da qualsiasi paese provengano e quale che sia la loro estrazione sociale . 
ITALIAN Riprendo ora l ' accenno dell ' onorevole Van Hecke sul rimpatrio di alcuni tifosi inglesi effettuato con aeroplani C130 . 
ITALIAN La reazione della polizia belga è stata eccessiva e addirittura vergognosa ; infatti moltissimi appassionati di calcio , semplici e inoffensivi , sono stati prelevati con la forza dai bar e accomunati così alla peggior feccia degli hooligan . 
ITALIAN Chiediamoci ora : quale messaggio hanno trasmesso le autorità calcistiche nei mesi che hanno preceduto i campionati europei ? 
ITALIAN In occasione della partita fra Galatasaray e Arsenal giocata in Danimarca , numerosi tifosi dell ' Arsenal sono stati arrestati ma non sono stati accusati di atti di teppismo . 
ITALIAN Dobbiamo poi denunciare l ' inerzia del governo britannico che ha scelto di non imporre alcuna sanzione supplementare che impedisse di spostarsi all ' estero almeno agli individui notoriamente pericolosi . 
ITALIAN Come altre istituzioni non direttamente coinvolte , anche il nostro Parlamento dovrebbe fare un passo indietro : ci si offre ora una pausa di riflessione per ragionare sulle iniziative più realistiche da intraprendere per combattere il teppismo , senza dimenticare però il diritto delle persone di muoversi liberamente in tutto il continente . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , vorrei far notare che questa risoluzione ha per titolo " Euro 2000 " e non " Hooligans " , come appare sulla lavagna . 
ITALIAN E dire che come parlamentari e politici , noi abbiamo una grande responsabilità rispetto ai fenomeni sportivi , in particolare a quello calcistico : quella di ricordare sempre che si tratta di un gioco . 
ITALIAN Credo che ai nostri giovani , anche a quelli più tifosi , a quelli che investono di più , sentimentalmente , in questi eventi , dobbiamo sempre ricordare che si tratta di un gioco e quando il gioco è bello , com ' è stato anche in questi europei , credo che sia il grande successo di tutti noi . 
ITALIAN Capisco anche perché , per le autorità che devono organizzare questi eventi , si tratta di eventi particolarmente complessi . 
ITALIAN Ci ricordiamo la tragedia dello stadio di Heysel . Per questo credo che ci dobbiamo congratulare per l ' organizzazione . 
ITALIAN Tuttavia , in questo quadro positivo , ricordiamo l ' episodio dello stadio di Rotterdam , anche perché questo è avvenuto in una circostanza molto particolare , che riguarda la possibilità di accesso di persone handicappate a questi eventi , che dovrebbe potersi svolgere con serenità e con accoglienza . 
ITALIAN Inoltre ci ha stupito la brutalità della polizia nel colpire i giornalisti che segnalavano un problema molto serio rispetto alla possibilità di accesso e di comportamento delle persone handicappate . 
ITALIAN Ribadisco che , secondo noi , non esiste un clima creato dalle autorità ; si è trattato però di un grave comportamento da parte delle forze dell ' ordine , per cui invito tutti i colleghi a non fare di questo un elemento nazionale , perché penso che il contenuto della risoluzione di compromesso può essere condiviso e votato da tutti . 
ITALIAN Grazie , onorevoli deputati . 
ITALIAN Il punto dell ' ordine del giorno approvato dal plenum è " Hooligan " . 
ITALIAN Effettivamente , il titolo della risoluzione può essere quello a cui vi state riferendo , ma nell ' ordine del giorno figura come " Hooligan " nell ' ambito del titolo " Diritti dell ' uomo " . 
ITALIAN Approfitto dell ' occasione per ribadire , per quanto riguarda gli atti , che in castigliano " hooligan " rappresenta un anglicismo usato per indicare un particolare tipo di teppista , in generale di origine britannica . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , onorevoli colleghi , la risoluzione di compromesso , che fra poco voteremo , mi sembra particolarmente equilibrata . 
ITALIAN In particolare la vicenda di Rotterdam non intacca il giudizio sui diritti umani o sulla qualità della democrazia in Olanda , che reputo tra i paesi più liberi al mondo , ma rimane un brutto episodio , sia per l ' atteggiamento disdicevole nei confronti di portatori di handicap sia per la violenza contro giornalisti che non facevano altro che il proprio dovere . 
ITALIAN Poco importa che questi siano italiani o meno . 
ITALIAN L ' Unione europea , attraverso la sua massima espressione democratica che è il Parlamento , stigmatizza una vicenda verificatasi al proprio interno . 
ITALIAN Questo mi sembra lo spirito più giusto ! 
ITALIAN Tutto ciò che riguarda gli aspetti nazionali sarà oggetto di eventuali azioni dei rispettivi governi e non ci riguarda . 
ITALIAN Del resto , l ' Unione europea , soprattutto con le proprie risoluzioni d ' urgenza , non si esime dall ' esprimere posizioni rigorose su alcuni paesi o su alcuni episodi verificatisi in ogni parte del pianeta , nei quali non vengono rispettati i diritti umani . 
ITALIAN Quale credibilità avrebbe essa in tale sua azione , se non fosse capace di riconoscere episodi del genere anche al proprio interno ? 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , per quanto riguarda i campionati sarò telegrafico : la Francia è meritatamente campione europeo e la paura che la situazione potesse sfuggire di mano non ha trovato riscontro nella realtà , nonostante alcuni incidenti di cui ha riferito l ' onorevole Van Hecke che hanno coinvolto in particolare i sostenitori inglesi . 
ITALIAN Al termine della final. ed è su questo che rischia di incentrarsi l ' intera discussione , anche se non si può fare altr. sono avvenuti dei fatti sui quali , a mio giudizio , non si può chiudere un occhio e mi riferisco in particolare al trattamento dur. fin troppo dur. riservato ai giornalisti . 
ITALIAN A mio parere , poliziotti e assistenti troppo nervosi hanno chiaramente passato i limiti . 
ITALIAN Ma su quanto è successo prima e su quella che è stata la causa scatenante c ' è ancora molta incertezza . 
ITALIAN Che cosa è accaduto veramente ai disabili italiani ? 
ITALIAN Si sapeva che ne sarebbero giunti tanti ? 
ITALIAN Lo dico in veste di frequentatore abituale dello stadio di Rotterdam e so che lì c ' è , sì , posto per tifosi portatori di handicap , ma non per un numero illimitato di disabili . 
ITALIAN Questi tifosi non volevano oppure non dovevano essere ripresi dalle telecamere ? 
ITALIAN Bisogna trovare una risposta a questi interrogativi e il governo olandese ha promesso di procedere ad un ' indagine al riguardo . 
ITALIAN Fino a che non saranno pubblicati i risultati di tale indagine mi asterrò dal formulare qualsiasi giudizio . 
ITALIAN Pertanto il mio gruppo voterà contro le parti della risoluzione in cui invece è già stato espresso un giudizio . 
ITALIAN Desidero lanciare un accorato appello ai colleghi e alla stampa italiani , ma in particolare ai colleghi italiani , affinché non si paragoni la vicenda di Rotterdam con il dramma dell ' Heysel , ché non è assolutamente il caso . 
ITALIAN Facendolo , si mettono solo in dubbio le gravi questioni che devono ancora essere vagliate . 
ITALIAN Suggerisco quanto segue : è accaduto qualcosa , si farà un ' indagine a tale proposito , ma , per favore , guardiamo le cose nelle loro giuste dimensioni . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , la ringrazio di aver ricordato che il titolo del punto dell ' ordine del giorno che stiamo affrontando è il fenomeno degli hooligan . 
ITALIAN Due mesi fa presentai un ' interrogazione al Parlamento sulla necessità di intervenire contro le violenze che gli hooligan avrebbero sicuramente commesso in occasione di Euro 2000 . 
ITALIAN Le misure adottate dalle autorità belghe hanno permesso di attenuare le violenze chiaramente razziste , xenofobe e contro gli omosessuali degli hooligan . 
ITALIAN E ' indispensabile capire quali mezzi debbano essere adottati per neutralizzare gli autori di tali atti di violenza , spesso manipolati da movimenti di estrema destra . 
ITALIAN I club di calcio e di tifosi devono essere maggiormente responsabilizzati perch. bisogna riconoscerl. per il momento soffiano sul fuoco . 
ITALIAN Il Ministro francese per la gioventù e lo sport , Marie - Georges Buffet , ha promosso un ' azione di responsabilizzazione che sta dando i suoi frutti . 
ITALIAN Ritengo che il Parlamento possa avere un vero e proprio ruolo di stimolo presso gli Stati membri e l ' UEFA affinché tali misure siano di applicazione immediata : il cartellino rosso deve valere in campo , ma anche per gli hooligan dentro e fuori gli stadi . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , onorevoli colleghi , devono essere condannate tutte le forme di violenza , anche le biasimevoli espressioni di hooliganismo manifestatesi in occasione di Euro 2000 . 
ITALIAN Ad ogni modo , non posso fare a meno di pensare che i riprovevoli incidenti verificatisi siano stati ingigantiti a dismisura sia da una parte della stampa sia da una parte della classe politica . 
ITALIAN Pertanto non è stata sottolineata a sufficienza la buona organizzazione di Euro 2000, un ' organizzazione che rimarrà per molti milioni di persone un ricordo indelebile . 
ITALIAN In qualità di rappresentante di uno dei due paesi organizzatori , mi congratulo con tutti coloro che sono stati impegnati nell ' organizzazione e nel mantenimento dell ' ordine pubblico . 
ITALIAN La riuscita di Euro 2000 ha dimostrato che piccoli paesi sono in grado di compiere grandi azioni . Il successo di Euro 2000 non dev ' essere offuscato dall ' atteggiamento vandalico di una minoranza . 
ITALIAN Tutti gli Stati membri devono , di comune accordo , adottare misure adeguate . 
ITALIAN Euro 2000 non è stata soltanto una grande festa del calcio , ma anche della fratellanza e della solidarietà tra i cittadini dell ' Unione europea . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , lunedì il gruppo ELDR ha votato contro l ' iscrizione di questo punto all ' ordine del giorno ; leggendo la risoluzione , penso che avevamo ragione . 
ITALIAN Naturalmente è bello congratularsi in una risoluzione , ma non mi sembra che sia questo il compito del Parlamento . 
ITALIAN L ' argomento hooligan non può essere definito urgente in quanto è un fenomeno che si manifesta già da anni ; è importante trattarlo , anche da parte del Parlamento , ma non va discusso come un problema urgente . 
ITALIAN C ' è poi la questione dei fatti di Rotterdam . 
ITALIAN E ' ovvio che è necessario condurre un ' indagine dato che le accuse mosse sono assai gravi . 
ITALIAN Le indagini sono in corso . 
ITALIAN Il procuratore olandese se ne sta occupando e pertanto è del tutto prematuro che il Parlamento esprima un giudizio al riguardo . A mio parere , non è il momento di farlo . 
ITALIAN Ritengo che sia fuori luogo tranciare un giudizio politico nel momento in cui un procuratore sta vagliando i fatti . 
ITALIAN Penso che anche gli emendamenti relativi a questa vicenda debbano essere respinti . 
ITALIAN Potremo ritornare sulla questione quando risulterà che effettivamente è accaduto qualcosa che possa avere a che fare con una violazione dei diritti umani , ma credo che a voler esprimere sin d ' ora un simile giudizio ci si spinga troppo in là . 
ITALIAN A lui che è stato arbitro direi , sportivamente , che avevo fatto bene allora a fischiarlo . 
ITALIAN In secondo luogo , ritengo che sia necessario considerare con attenzione la questione : infatti , se riuscissimo , come indica la risoluzione , a raggiungere una maggiore cooperazione tra i diversi Stati membri in occasione di manifestazioni come questa , faremmo un passo in avanti . 
ITALIAN Concludo , signor Presidente , augurandomi che il contenuto e il modo in cui ho presentato questa riflessione avessero una dimensione umana , come da lei auspicato . 
ITALIAN Iraq 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , le Nazioni Unite sono state indebolite da due membri del Consiglio di sicurezza per quanto riguarda le sanzioni all ' Iraq . 
ITALIAN Kofi Annan è un uomo retto e giusto , ma dovrebbe comunque dare le dimissioni , nella consapevolezza che il mondo è decisamente contrario all ' eccessiva severità delle sanzioni . 
ITALIAN L ' Unione europea deve levare la propria voce e protestare contro sanzioni che equivalgono a un genocidio virtuale . 
ITALIAN Lo scopo presunto di tali sanzioni è di sbarazzarsi di Saddam Hussein ; dieci anni dopo l ' imposizione delle sanzioni egli è ancora al potere . 
ITALIAN In realtà , il vero scopo delle sanzioni è di controllare gli approvvigionamenti petroliferi e di garantire una zona di addestramento ai piloti statunitensi e britannici in modo da assicurare la sopravvivenza dei complessi militari - industriali dei due paesi . 
ITALIAN In occasione della mia recente visita in Iraq , ho visto bambini morire di infezioni respiratorie , dissenteria , leucemia , gastroenterite e denutrizione . 
ITALIAN Dobbiamo ricordare che questo paese dispone della seconda riserva petrolifera al mondo . 
ITALIAN Nelle sale operatorie ci sono infiltrazioni di liquami e attrezzature antiquate . 
ITALIAN Stiamo assistendo al lento soffocamento di una nazione e di un popolo meravigliosi . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , inizialmente avevamo presentato un testo sullo stesso argomento e della medesima portata ma più ricco di sfumature rispetto alla cosiddetta risoluzione comune . 
ITALIAN Avrei di gran lunga preferito discutere un testo con più sfumature . 
ITALIAN Come mai il nostro testo non compare ? 
ITALIAN A nostro giudizio , il testo originale da noi presentato avrebbe potuto fungere assai meglio da base per la discussione . 
ITALIAN Onorevole Maes , forse non ci siamo capiti bene , ma se avete ritirato la vostra firma dalla risoluzione comune oppure non la avete firmata , il testo continuerà ad essere in discussione e verrà sottoposto a votazione secondo le regole stabilite 
ITALIAN Verrà distribuito ? E ' forse a disposizione ? 
ITALIAN Noto infatti che molti colleghi non hanno visto il testo in questione . 
ITALIAN Sì , certamente . 
ITALIAN Non sapevamo che esistesse un problema di distribuzione , ma se lo dice lei , lo verificheremo e distribuiremo il testo . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , la guerra tra Iraq e Iran è durata dal 1980 al 1989 ; in quel conflitto , gli Stati Uniti e l ' Unione europea hanno appoggiato l ' Iraq perché consideravamo l ' Iran la vera minaccia per il Medio Oriente . 
ITALIAN L ' Iraq ha invaso il Kuwait il 2 agosto 1990, con un ' azione ingiusta e inaccettabile ; l ' ONU ha risposto con la risoluzione 661 imponendo sanzioni all ' Iraq . 
ITALIAN L ' azione dell ' ONU era giustificata . 
ITALIAN Nell ' aprile 1991 gli Stati Uniti e la Gran Bretagna hanno imposto una no - fly zone . 
ITALIAN Nel 1994 l ' Iraq ha riconosciuto l ' integrità territoriale del Kuwait . 
ITALIAN Dal 1991 al 1997 gli ispettori dell ' ON . 
ITALIAN UNSCO. hanno ispezionato , distrutto e verificato sistematicamente e su larga scala la capacità irachena di produrre armi di distruzione di massa . 
ITALIAN Nel 1997 l ' ONU è stata informata dal proprio rappresentante che il lavoro dell ' UNSCOM si era esteso in pratica all ' intero Iraq . 
ITALIAN Nel 1998 l ' Agenzia internazionale per l ' energia atomica ha dichiarato che la capacità nucleare dell ' Iraq era ormai inesistente . 
ITALIAN Il programma Oil for Food , avviato nel 1996, è stato caratterizzato da un ' eccessiva burocrazia e da una generale incompetenza , provocando gravi ritardi negli approvvigionamenti dei farmaci essenziali e dei prodotti alimentari . 
ITALIAN Dei 28 miliardi di dollari di proventi petroliferi accumulati in tre anni , soltanto 7 miliardi sono stati utilizzati per le importazioni , mentre 12 miliardi sono ancora congelati in una banca di New York . 
ITALIAN Tuttavia , dieci anni di sanzioni hanno provocato immense sofferenze e privazioni ai 22 milioni di iracheni ; alta mortalità infantile , ridotte aspettative di vita , maggiore incidenza del cancro e delle malattie curabili continuano a devastare il tessuto sociale di un paese che un tempo godeva di un alto tenore di vita . 
ITALIAN L ' embargo intellettuale ha impedito a medici , insegnanti e altri professionisti di godere dei progressi scientifici e tecnologici . 
ITALIAN Credo che l ' Unione europea debba rivedere la propria posizione , aiutando coloro che soffrono maggiormente ; attualmente , sei Stati membri dell ' Unione hanno una rappresentanza diplomatica in Iraq : Germania , Francia , Italia , Spagna , Portogallo e Grecia . 
ITALIAN I diplomatici di questi paesi condividono l ' opinione dell ' Ufficio delle Nazioni Unite in Iraq , dell ' Organizzazione mondiale della sanità , della Croce Rossa e di altre organizzazioni non governative : attraverso l ' attività diplomatica , l ' Unione potrà ottenere una vera svolta . 
ITALIAN I nostri deputati e i funzionari della Commissione devono recarsi in Iraq in missioni esplorative per incontrare i rappresentanti del Parlamento iracheno , i diplomatici dell ' UE , le agenzie internazionali e le ONG . 
ITALIAN Questo dialogo contribuirà a stabilire quale sia la realtà odierna e ad individuare il modo di rompere l ' impasse per eliminare le sanzioni nel settore degli approvvigionamenti non militari . 
ITALIAN Spero che il Parlamento voterà a favore di questa risoluzione . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , a dimostrazione del fatto che il perpetuarsi delle sanzioni contro l ' Iraq provoca gravi problemi , basterà ricordare il gran numero di dimissioni di funzionari d ' alto livello delle Nazioni Unite Possiamo anche notare le parole di Mary Robinson , che ha aspramente condannato le conseguenze delle sanzioni . 
ITALIAN Il bombardamento illegittimo ad opera degli Stati Uniti e della Gran Bretagna non è contemplato da alcuna risoluzione del Consiglio di sicurezza dell ' ONU , non è previsto da alcun mandato ed è decisamente vergognoso : non possiamo permettere che vada avanti . 
ITALIAN La nostra acquiescenza per la continuazione di questo bombardamento ha dell ' incredibile . 
ITALIAN Le infrastrutture irachene sono state completamente distrutte ; anche in questo caso , le vittime sono persone innocenti prive di ogni potere . 
ITALIAN Dobbiamo anche ricordare che qualunque tipo di misura venga adottata in futuro contro l ' Iraq , dobbiamo cercare di salvaguardare i diritti umani e la democrazia ; dobbiamo inoltre proteggere i curdi al nord e gli sciiti al sud , per garantire loro qualche forma di autonomia . 
ITALIAN Non possiamo certo dimenticarci di queste popolazioni . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , il 15 aprile , dopo un dibattito approfondito con Consiglio e Commissione , abbiamo varato una risoluzione cui la stragrande maggioranza di questo Parlamento ha potuto esprimere il suo appoggio . 
ITALIAN In tale risoluzione ci appellavamo a Consiglio e Commissione affinché facessero il possibile per risparmiare l ' esistenza e la salute del popolo iracheno e per mettere fine alle sue sofferenze . 
ITALIAN Chiedevamo l ' abolizione dell ' embargo anche per generi alimentari e medicinali , perché esso colpisce non già Saddam Hussein , bensì il popolo iracheno . 
ITALIAN Esortavamo a far cessare immediatamente i bombardamenti che Stati Uniti e Regno Unito stanno compiendo senza alcun mandato da parte del Consiglio di sicurezza dell ' ONU , perché anche questi colpiscono e puniscono in Iraq non i colpevoli ma le vittime . 
ITALIAN Ovviamente , già all ' inizio della risoluzione confermavamo e sottolineavamo la necessità che il governo iracheno si impegnasse ad accettare e favorire il controllo da parte delle Nazioni Unite sulla distruzione delle armi ABC , e a contribuire a far luce sul destino delle persone scomparse in Kuwait . 
ITALIAN Con la discussione di oggi e con la nuova proposta ci prefiggiamo altri tre obbiettivi . 
ITALIAN Innanzi tutto vogliamo integrare l ' appello a Consiglio e Commissione con una pari esortazione al Consiglio di sicurezza delle Nazioni Unite . 
ITALIAN Secondo , proponiamo che questa assemblea operi di sua iniziativa e intraprenda sul posto una fact finding mission . 
ITALIAN Terzo , desideriamo confermare che le Nazioni Unite , l ' Organizzazione mondiale per la sanità e la Croce Rossa in Iraq stanno operando affinché i più bisognosi ed i più deboli possano trarre beneficio dall ' attuale programma " Oil for Food " . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , premesso che , al pari dell ' onorevole Andrews , mi considero amico del mondo arabo ed islamico , voglio dire che il nucleo fondamentale di tutta la risoluzione , senza il quale essa non può essere accolta , risieda nel considerando A e nel primo paragrafo , ove si afferma che solo il rispetto delle risoluzioni delle Nazioni Unite da parte dell ' Iraq può condurre ad un allentamento delle sanzioni . 
ITALIAN In particolare , si chiede all ' Iraq di cooperare con il Comitato internazionale della Croce Rossa per rintracciare i 604 cittadini kuwaitiani scomparsi dopo l ' illegittima occupazione del paese da parte dell ' Iraq . 
ITALIAN Nel caso di una visita dell ' Unione europea in Iraq , essa dovrebbe prevedere un incontro con le famiglie del Kuwait che , da dieci anni , stanno attendendo di sapere cosa sia accaduto ai loro cari . 
ITALIAN Una posizione più morbida da parte europea non sarebbe di alcun aiuto per il popolo iracheno , il quale sarebbe , anzi , così condannato a subire una tirannia eterna . 
ITALIAN Signor Presiedente , un minuto è veramente poco per un tema così grave . 
ITALIAN Dico grave perché abbiamo a che fare , né più né meno , con la sopravvivenza di un popolo , e con un atto che si deve chiamar. come fece tempo fa un Ministro della difesa francese , Chevènemen. una spedizione punitiva internazionale contro una nazione che osava sottrarsi al nuovo ordine mondiale . 
ITALIAN Un atto come questo è di cattivo auspicio per il futuro . 
ITALIAN Il nuovo ordine mondiale , espressione di Bush per nascondere gli interessi delle grandi multinazionali , e in questo caso dei petrolieri americani , è per noi sempre più intollerabile . 
ITALIAN Ci stupiamo del silenzio delle associazioni umanitarie di fronte alla situazione degli iracheni che soffrono e muoiono ( le vittime sono ormai più di un milione ) per mano nostra . 
ITALIAN Che contrasto e che ipocrisia tra l ' umanitarismo e questo olocausto del quale siamo tutti responsabili collettivamente a causa della pura e semplice codardia di fronte alla potenza americana ! Il Parlamento in particolare e l ' Europa in generale non sono capaci di opporsi a questo grande impero su alcun tema , come si è visto ancora ieri nella votazione su ECHELON . 
ITALIAN Il fatto più grave , e con questo concludo perché ci sarebbero decisamente troppe cose da dire , è che per una volta un paese del sud riusciva a svilupparsi e i paesi del nord , allineati dietro a Washington , non hanno esitato a distruggerlo . 
ITALIAN E ' un fatto estremamente grave ed inquietante per il secolo che comincia . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , chi mai potrebbe non provare simpatia per la popolazione irachena , così duramente provata ? 
ITALIAN Parto dal presupposto che questa sia la molla che ha spinto coloro che hanno presentato la risoluzione comune . 
ITALIAN L ' effetto politico del loro intento è un ' occasione fallita , anzi per la parte curda liberata dell ' antica Mesopotamia è assolutamente catastrofico . 
ITALIAN Voglio essere concreto . 
ITALIAN In pieno contrasto con quanto lasciano supporre i consideranda B e C , l ' odierna personificazione di Nabucodonosor , ossia Saddam Hussein , ha già distrutto l ' antica civiltà da lui tanto ammirata . 
ITALIAN Basta pensare alla prima e alla seconda guerra del Golfo e aggiungere ancora cinque anni , ossia il periodo 1991 - 1996, in cui Baghdad si è rifiutata categoricamente di collaborare al programma Oil for Food , causando il protrarsi , del tutto inutile , delle sofferenze da parte della popolazione . 
ITALIAN Attualmente il governo iracheno può persino esportare petrolio senza limitazioni per acquistare beni umanitari . 
ITALIAN In breve , che cosa fa Saddam per lenire le sofferenze dei suoi conterranei ? 
ITALIAN Che cosa accadrà del 13 percento riservato ai curdi se le sanzioni verranno inopinatamente cancellate ? 
ITALIAN Trovo alquanto bizzarro l ' uso dello strano termine " embargo intellettuale " di cui al considerando D . 
ITALIAN In effetti , l ' intellighenzia irachena soffre già da anni a causa dell ' embargo intellettuale imposto dal Baath , il partito di Saddam . 
ITALIAN Il tiranno del Tigri è infatti interessato ad un unico tipo di scienziato : quello che mette a punto armi per la distruzione di massa . 
ITALIAN Proprio questa ossessione di Saddam Hussein mette a nudo la pericolosa ingenuità del paragrafo 3 della risoluzione comune , in quanto l ' abolizione della no - fly zone nel nord dell ' Iraq , ossia la garanzia internazionale che tutela i curdi dal loro nemico mortale , Saddam , costringerà probabilmente milioni di curdi a darsi di nuovo alla fuga . 
ITALIAN Essi infatti sanno fin troppo bene che valore abbiano le promesse di Saddam . 
ITALIAN E ' impossibile che coloro che hanno presentato la risoluzione comune mirino ad una simile prospettiva spaventosa . 
ITALIAN Perciò respingo con decisione il documento . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , mi si consenta di dire che la risposta della Commissione e la maniera sbrigativa con cui essa ha trattato la questione dell ' Iraq mi hanno lasciato sconvolto e indignato . 
ITALIAN Voglio citare , a beneficio del Commissario e della Commissione tutta , quel detto di Oscar Wilde , secondo il quale nelle cose della nostra vita il destino non chiude mai il suo libro . 
ITALIAN L ' Iraq merita ben più della risposta fornita dalla Commissione . 
ITALIAN Sono davvero indignato . 
ITALIAN Desidero esprimere la mia più totale insoddisfazione per la risposta fornita dalla Commissione e non ho altro da aggiungere . 
ITALIAN A voler essere giusti , signor Presidente , mi si deve concedere di esprimere la mia più totale soddisfazione per la risposta fornita dalla Commissione . 
ITALIAN Ringraziamo il signor Commissario che non desidera intervenire . 
ITALIAN La discussione è chiusa . 
ITALIAN La votazione si svolgerà alle 17.30 . 
ITALIAN L ' ordine del giorno reca , in discussione congiunta , le seguenti proposte di risoluzione : 
ITALIAN B5 - 0615 / 2000, presentata dagli onorevoli Di Pietro e Sánchez García a nome del gruppo ELDR , sul Venezuela ; 
ITALIAN B5 - 0627 / 2000, presentata dagli onorevoli Salafranca Sánchez - Neyra e altri a nome del gruppo PPE - DE , sulla ricostruzione e la ripresa delle regioni colpite dalle catastrofiche inondazioni abbattutesi sul Venezuela nel dicembre l999 ; 
ITALIAN B5 - 0634 / 2000, presentata dagli onorevoli Wurtz e altri a nome del gruppo GUE / NGL , sul Venezuela ; 
ITALIAN B5 - 0642 / 2000, presentata dagli onorevoli Frassoni e Knörr - Borràs a nome del gruppo Verts / ALE , sulla ricostruzione delle regioni colpite nel dicembre 1999 dalle inondazioni in Venezuela . 
ITALIAN B5 - 0652 / 2000, presentata dagli onorevoli Linkohr e Menéndez del Valle a nome del gruppo PSE , sulla ricostruzione delle regioni colpite nel dicembre 1999 dalle inondazioni in Venezuela . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , onorevoli colleghi , oggi abbiamo l ' opportunità di dimostrare la nostra solidarietà al popolo venezuelano , che nel dicembre dell ' anno scorso subì le conseguenze del disastro naturale che colpì il litorale degli Stati di Vargs e Miranda e causò la morte di 50.000 persone . 
ITALIAN Per questo , insistiamo nel ribadire l ' importanza che riveste l ' approvazione di questa risoluzione , la quale , in definitiva , rappresenta la conseguenza logica della relazione della commissione speciale che si è recata in Venezuela per conoscere sul posto la realtà del disastro naturale e riflette la coerenza degli impegni politici presi dall ' Unione europea . 
ITALIAN Mi auguro che sia così possibile finanziare in modo significativo il programma di ripresa delle zone colpite e che si proceda seguendo gli schemi di questo tipo di azione . 
ITALIAN Allo stesso modo , sarebbe opportuno che si tenesse conto , per il coordinamento , dei programmi di aiuti finanziari degli Stati membri e delle regioni comunitarie . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , come ha appena ricordato l ' onorevole Sánchez García , questa risoluzione rientra nell ' ambito della decisione della Conferenza dei presidenti di inviare una missione ad hoc in Venezuela per fare un bilancio delle tragiche conseguenze delle inondazioni avvenute nel mese di dicembre in quel paese . 
ITALIAN Il caso venezuelano è grave e richiede misure urgenti . 
ITALIAN E ' grave perché si calcol. e non si ha ancora un bilancio definitivo delle vittim. che in questa tragedia abbiano perso la vita più di 30.000 persone . 
ITALIAN Richiede misure urgenti perché , signor Presidente , la missione del Parlamento europeo risale al mese di febbraio e fino ad oggi non siamo stati in grado di giungere a delle conclusioni definitive . 
ITALIAN Credo che qui sia in gioco la credibilità del Parlamento . 
ITALIAN Approfitto della presenza della Commissione per chiedere al signor Commissario che ci illustri il modo in cui la Commissione ha svolto il mandato affidatole dal Parlamento nella risoluzione approvata nel mese di gennaio , in cui si chiedeva che venisse fatta una valutazione della risposta comunitaria alla tragedia che aveva colpito il Venezuela . 
ITALIAN Spero che la Commissione sia in grado di mobilitare le risorse umane necessarie per rispettare le priorità indicate dal Parlamento e sono sicuro che se la Commissione , come è stato proposto nella sua bozza di bilancio del 2001, può permettersi di spendere 815 milioni di euro nei Balcani , potrà anche spendere almeno 50 milioni di euro in Venezuela . 
ITALIAN La questione , signor Presidente , pone un problema che va oltre la risoluzione sul Venezuela . 
ITALIAN Il problema consiste nel conservare la capacità di risposta del Parlamento a questo tipo di situazioni . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , deve essere chiaro ciò che vogliamo : vogliamo un parlamento vero e proprio o vogliamo un parlamento di cartapesta ? 
ITALIAN Vogliamo un parlamento che sia in grado di assumersi pienamente le proprie responsabilità o vogliamo un parlamento che si occupi di avallare le priorità di altre istituzioni ? 
ITALIAN Vogliamo un parlamento in grado di adempiere alle proprie responsabilità o vogliamo un parlamento che si occupi di firmare l ' assegno per impegni presi da altre istituzioni ? 
ITALIAN E ' questo il dibattito per il bilancio dell ' anno 2001 e questo è stato il dibattito sostenuto per il bilancio dell ' anno 2000 . 
ITALIAN Quello che voglio semplicemente dire , signor Presidente , è che quando c ' è la volontà si trova sempre la strada e che questa risoluzione rispecchia l ' impegno assunto dal Parlamento di manifestare la propria volontà , che è quella di aiutare e di esprimere solidarietà , la solidarietà dell ' Unione europea , con la società e con la popolazione del Venezuela . 
ITALIAN Sono convinto , signor Presidente , che grazie a questa volontà saremo capaci di trovare in un bilancio in cui quest ' anno figurano 100.000 milioni di euro e in cui figureranno cifre simili nei prossimi anni , una strada per andare incontro ai bisogni delle vittime di questa tragedia . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , le tre questioni che il gruppo confederale della Sinistra unitaria europea / Sinistra verde nordica desidera sottolineare sugli aiuti che l ' Unione europea può e deve dare al Venezuela a seguito della terribile catastrofe provocata dalle inondazioni sono : in primo luogo , dedicarsi con risorse economiche e tecniche a trovare una soluzione alla conseguenze e non diminuire gli aiuti , come richiede la Commissione , per far fronte finanziariamente ad un ' altra catastrofe , questa volta artificiale , provocata da noi nel Kosovo e in Jugoslavia , nei Balcani . 
ITALIAN In secondo luogo , ratificare e applicare le condizioni e le decisioni del vertice di Kyoto per ridurre l ' emissione degli agenti che inquinano l ' atmosfera producendo l ' effetto serra e , quindi , i cambiamenti climatici e i conseguenti danni . 
ITALIAN E in terzo luogo , dimostrare la solidarietà dell ' Unione europea al Venezuela , e in generale all ' America Latina , affinché si possano così contrastare gli effetti negativi del peso del nord del continente sul resto . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , desidero esprimere il nostro completo appoggio a questa risoluzione che parla di solidarietà con il popolo venezuelano , e desidero farlo avanzando alcuni punti . 
ITALIAN Come gruppo , non ci opponiamo , logicamente , al fatto che si parli , come si sta facendo , delle PMI e dell ' industria in generale , ma ci sembra eccessivo che se ne parli con questo zelo mentre , invece , si tace di altri gruppi che si trovano in maggiore difficoltà . 
ITALIAN Soprattutto , come ha indicato l ' onorevole Salafranca , è necessario che le misure adottate per gli aiuti siano efficaci e non risentano della mancanza di risorse umane . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , non voglio dire che il fatto che in questa Assemblea si sia sviluppata una sensibilità particolare verso la regione latino - americana impedisca che si appoggino anche gli sforzi che la Commissione sta facendo nei confronti dell ' Europa centro - orientale e per la ricostruzione dei Balcani . 
ITALIAN Quello che ci preoccupa in questo momento è la sensazione che nell ' ultimo anno la nuova Commissione abbia abbandonato il suo interesse verso quella zona . 
ITALIAN E ' come se , improvvisamente , l ' America Latina fosse scomparsa dalla carta geografica delle preoccupazioni della Commissione . 
ITALIAN Senza dubbio , il contributo dell ' Unione europea alla regione centro americana dopo la catastrofe del Mitch ha costituito un ' esperienza positiva , come positiva è stata la reazione iniziale della Commissione , che si è precipitata a destinare 400.000 euro per gli aiuti umanitari di emergenza al Venezuela quando è avvenuta la catastrofe citata dagli oratori che mi hanno preceduto . 
ITALIAN Sappiamo che in questo momento la Commissione ha la possibilità , i mezzi , le risorse per offrire un aiuto più consistente . 
ITALIAN Possiamo contare su strumenti , mezzi , bravi rappresentanti e possiamo contare anche sulla presenza europea in quelle zone . 
ITALIAN Bisogna ricordare , per esempio , che l ' Unione europea è il maggior investitore straniero in Venezuela e che abbiamo molti legami culturali e sociali con quei paesi . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , sono passati ormai più di sei mesi dalle tragiche inondazioni verificatesi in Venezuela . 
ITALIAN La delegazione ad hoc del Parlamento europeo ha avuto l ' opportunità di vedere gli effetti terribili di quella che è considerata la più grande catastrofe naturale mai avvenuta in America Latina . 
ITALIAN Bisogna vedere per credere . Per quanto impressionanti siano state le fotografie e le immagini televisive divulgate dai media , esse danno solo una pallida idea delle reali dimensioni del disastro . 
ITALIAN Abbiamo avuto anche l ' opportunità di costatare l ' inestimabile azione di solidarietà delle organizzazioni non governative nei confronti delle popolazioni colpite dalle inondazioni . 
ITALIAN Questo aiuto umanitario d ' emergenza prestato dalle ONG non sarebbe stato possibile senza l ' appoggio finanziario della Commissione . A tutti quelli che lo hanno reso possibile va la mia più profonda stima . 
ITALIAN Ora , tuttavia , la priorità deve essere la ricostruzione di tutta la zona colpita , nonché lo stimolo della ripresa economica . 
ITALIAN Nel quadro di una nuova pianificazione territoriale , è necessario ricostruire le abitazioni e tutti i tipi di infrastrutture , nonché incentivare le piccole e medie imprese , che si sono viste distruggere tutto , a ricominciare in molti casi da zero . 
ITALIAN Sono consapevole che il prezzo della ricostruzione è colossale . 
ITALIAN Sono state sgombrate appena alcune strade , è stata disciplinata con qualche provvedimento la fornitura di acqua e di elettricità , e poco più . Le persone colpite sono disperate per il ritardo , anche perché migliaia di loro continuano a dipendere dagli aiuti alimentari per la propria sopravvivenza . 
ITALIAN E ' fondamentale creare le migliaia di posti di lavoro persi a causa delle inondazioni . 
ITALIAN Il governo venezuelano ha bisogno di un grande sostegno per promuovere questo lavoro ciclopico . 
ITALIAN La Commissione , per ciò che riguarda il prezzo della ricostruzione , che è improrogabile , deve agire con la stessa solidarietà con cui ha agito in occasione della fornitura di aiuti umanitari d ' emergenza , o come quando ha aiutato i paesi colpiti dal ciclone Mitch . 
ITALIAN Chiediamo quindi alla Commissione di compiere un significativo sforzo finanziario nei prossimi cinque anni . 
ITALIAN Oltre a un dovere elementare di solidarietà , lo esigono i rapporti storici che ci legano al Venezuela e la stabilità democratica in quel paese . 
ITALIAN Innanzi tutto desidero precisare che , a differenza delle affermazioni fatte qui in Assemblea , la Commissione valuta moltissimo l ' importanza politica dell ' America Latina e proprio di recente ha intrapreso una serie di iniziative che sottolineano quanto l ' America Latina sia politicamente importante per l ' Europa . 
ITALIAN In secondo luogo desidero osservare che , anche in occasione della catastrofe verificatasi in Venezuela , è opportuno riflettere sulle cause e sugli effetti e sulle responsabilità collegate . 
ITALIAN In fin dei conti , l ' Unione ha dato fin dall ' inizio aiuti di vasta portata e continuerà a farlo . 
ITALIAN Due sono gli aspetti di questi aiuti . 
ITALIAN Da un lato si tratta di sostenere la ricostruzione nello stato federale di Varga : oggi è già possibile vedere con maggiore chiarezza quali sono le esigenze reali . All ' inizio non era così . 
ITALIAN Posso ben capire che ci sia una certa impazienza perché a volte le cose si muovono con lentezza . 
ITALIAN Dal governo venezuelano però non sono arrivate proposte di progetti . 
ITALIAN I risultati sono ora disponibili . 
ITALIAN Fra qualche giorno verrà inviata una comunicazione al Consiglio con indicazioni su quali siano i provvedimenti da adottare e con quanto danaro vadano finanziati . 
ITALIAN Il secondo aspetto , a mio avviso ancora più importante degli aiuti alla ricostruzione , è l ' aiuto a prevenire le catastrofi . 
ITALIAN Noi vogliamo dare il nostro contributo affinché si decidano e si avviino programmi dedicati alla gestione dei rischi naturali negli Stati federali di Falcon , Miranda e Jarakui . 
ITALIAN Nell ' ambito della prevenzione delle catastrof. abbiamo dovuto impararlo proprio dalla catastrofe venezuelan. c ' è ancora molto da migliorare . 
ITALIAN Io credo che l ' aiuto più valido che possiamo dare a quelle genti consista nel concentrarsi su questo aspetto . 
ITALIAN La questione della dotazione finanziaria di queste due misure è molto complessa . La Commissione riceve continuamente da Consiglio e Parlamento indicazioni su ciò che deve fare e su chi deve aiutare , ma nessuno dice mai alla Commissione dove troverà il denaro per fare tutto ciò . 
ITALIAN Come ben sapete , noi della Commissione non possiamo battere moneta . 
ITALIAN Troveremo un modo per finanziare queste attività e faremo delle proposte realistiche , anche proposte sul tipo di contributo che il paese stesso è in grado di dare grazie ai proventi dell ' esportazione del petrolio , che sono aumentati notevolmente . 
ITALIAN La ringrazio , signor Commissario . 
ITALIAN La discussione congiunta è chiusa . 
ITALIAN La votazione si svolgerà alle 17.30 . 
ITALIAN Osservatorio europeo contro il razzismo e la xenofobia 
ITALIAN L ' ordine del giorno reca , in discussione congiunta , le seguenti proposte di risoluzione : 
ITALIAN B5 ­ 0628 / 2000, presentata dall ' onorevole Van Velzen a nome del gruppo PPE - DE , sulla polemica sull ' Osservatorio europeo contro il razzismo e la xenofobia ; 
ITALIAN B5 ­ 0651 / 2000, presentata dall ' onorevole Ford e altri a nome del gruppo PSE , sulle dimissioni del professor Pelinka , rappresentante austriaco nel Consiglio di amministrazione dell ' Osservatorio europeo contro il razzismo e la xenofobia . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , condivido l ' opinione dell ' onorevole Watson , presidente della commissione per le libertà civili e i diritti dei cittadini , la giustizia e gli affari interni , il quale in un ' intervista ha affermato che la proposta d ' urgenza presentata dall ' onorevole Swoboda è la via sbagliata , e che egli si aspetta un comportamento più maturo . 
ITALIAN Sono d ' accordo con questa affermazione perché in una motivazione presentata al Parlamento l ' onorevole Swoboda faceva riferimento a conflitti ben anteriori fra il governo austriaco e la Direttrice dell ' Osservatorio europeo contro il razzismo , conflitti risalenti all ' epoca in cui Viktor Klima , uomo dell ' SPÖ , era a capo del governo austriaco e tale governo era dominato dall ' SPÖ . 
ITALIAN Se un socialista austriaco fa una cosa simile , si crea una situazione delicata ma assolutamente non urgente . 
ITALIAN Condivido le parole dell ' onorevole Watson perché l ' onorevole Swoboda conferma al governo attuale che le relazioni con l ' Osservatorio stanno rifiorendo . 
ITALIAN Dovrebbe rallegrarsene , come faccio io e come fanno molti altri . 
ITALIAN Questo non è un motivo per un ' urgenza , ed ancor meno dà motivo d ' urgenza il fatto che io citi qui parole pronunciate dalla Direttrice dell ' Osservatorio in un ' intervista da lei stessa autorizzata . 
ITALIAN La Direttrice loda esplicitamente la nuova politica estera dell ' Austria e concede al governo che ovviamente non c ' è stata nemmeno una iniziativa xenofoba ma che , al contrario , si stanno registrando molti progressi . 
ITALIAN Afferma inoltre che tali progressi non erano stati possibili con il governo rosso - nero , ma anche che , naturalmente , non viene ostacolata nel suo lavoro . 
ITALIAN Cosa vuol dire dunque tutto questo , onorevole Swoboda ? 
ITALIAN Evidentemente lei , come socialista austriaco , vuole semplicemente gettare le basi per una polemica contro l ' Austria . 
ITALIAN E ' una cosa vergognosa e decisamente deplorevole per un austriaco ! 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , mi scuso con gli interpreti se poc ' anzi ho parlato troppo velocemente . 
ITALIAN Vorrei intervenire a proposito delle dimissioni del professor Pelinka dal Consiglio d ' amministrazione dell ' Osservatorio di Vienna . 
ITALIAN Ritengo che quello che è accaduto a Pelinka , docente universitario di chiara fama , rispettato dalla comunità scientifica , è rivelatore della vera natura della coalizione al potere in Austria . 
ITALIAN L ' estrema destra , soprattutto quando è al potere , è abile nell ' arte di esasperare gli oppositori . 
ITALIAN Ciò che è accaduto al professor Pelinka non è né una coincidenza né un caso . 
ITALIAN Si è cominciato con il calunniarlo , lo si è poi perseguitato mediante una sentenza iniqua emessa da un giudice agli ordini dell ' FPÖ , visto che l ' attuale Ministro della giustizia dell ' FPÖ era l ' avvocato di Jörg Haider nel caso di diffamazione contro il professor Pelinka . 
ITALIAN Infine , l ' attività dell ' Osservatorio è stata resa impossibile mediante una campagna di pressione pubblica contro i suoi membri . 
ITALIAN Ritengo che Haide. dobbiamo esserne consapevol. stia mostrando il proprio sprezzo per le sanzioni che l ' Unione europea gli impone attualmente . Infatti , quando la Presidenza portoghese prese l ' iniziativa di proporre la nomina di tre saggi , egli decise di reagire indicendo un referendum per la cessazione delle sanzioni , un referendum chiaramente demagogico , populista e antieuropeo . 
ITALIAN Ci ricorda che l ' Osservatorio è una creazione dell ' Unione europea e che il nostro Presidente era presente all ' inaugurazione tre mesi fa . 
ITALIAN Questa è la riprova , per quanti ancora avessero dubbi , che non bisogna venire a patti con l ' estrema destra , perché ogni piccola vittoria che essa ottiene la rende più forte e più accettabile . 
ITALIAN In risposta , dobbiamo accordare il nostro totale appoggio al professor Pelinka e , parimenti , sostenere l ' Osservatorio sul piano umano , politico e finanziario . Infine , gli Stati membri devono continuare a isolare il governo austriaco e , pur mantenendo il nostro appoggio al popolo austriaco , isolare questa coalizione inaccettabile e pericolosa . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , ho avuto l ' onore di rappresentare il Parlamento europeo nel Consiglio di amministrazione dell ' Osservatorio europeo contro il razzismo e la xenofobia e di avere come collega il professor Anton Pelinka , rappresentante del governo austriaco . 
ITALIAN Tutto sommato , egli è stato un amico assai poco conciliante per quanti fra noi volevano agire con maggiore velocità e con più decisione . 
ITALIAN Mi ha lasciato stupefatto , perciò , assistere alla persecuzione di Stato messa in atto contro il professor Pelinka in primo luogo dall ' avvocato del signor Haider , il quale ha agito da accusatore e giudice nella causa di diffamazione contro il signor Haider , colpevole , secondo il professore , di aver reso politicamente accettabili posizioni e affermazioni di stampo nazionalsocialista . 
ITALIAN In secondo luogo da parte di alcuni settori dell ' attuale governo austriaco , che , con una serie di attacchi a livello amministrativo , gli hanno implicitamente tolta la posizione di Vicepresidente del Consiglio di amministrazione dell ' Osservatorio europeo contro il razzismo e la xenofobia . 
ITALIAN La risoluzione al nostro esame , come auspicato lunedì dall ' onorevole Watson , chiede alla commissione per le libertà e i diritti dei cittadini di seguire con attenzione gli sviluppi del caso . 
ITALIAN Quanto è accaduto , non può , io credo , sorprendere . 
ITALIAN Nel 1992, quando il professor Pelinka aveva richiamato il passato nazista di Hans Steinecker , un predecessore del Partito liberale , il signor Haider così si era espresso riguardo al professore : " E ' finito il tempo dei falsificatori della storia e di coloro che insultano l ' Austria . 
ITALIAN Pelinka ha un rapporto psicologicamente patologico con la Carinzia e il suo modo di propagare in continuazione falsità è inaccettabile " . 
ITALIAN Nel marzo di quest ' anno , il Partito liberale ha affermato : " I giornali ancora una volta hanno avuto ragione . 
ITALIAN Ora egli ( Haider ) è per noi un pericolo " . 
ITALIAN Ma Haider non è una minaccia per nessuno e l ' intera vicenda non è poi così incomprensibile . 
ITALIAN Nei prossimi sei mesi , le persone di buon senso dovranno affrontare un compito impegnativo . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , signor Commissario , desidero innanzi tutto respingere con fermezza l ' osservazione dell ' onorevole Sylla secondo cui nel nostro paese , la Repubblica Austriaca , ci sarebbe una giustizia politica . 
ITALIAN In secondo luogo desidero far notare che vi sono parecchi temi di attualità che meriterebbero di essere trattati in seno al Parlamento . 
ITALIAN Il tema dell ' Osservatorio europeo contro il razzismo e la xenofobia con sede a Vienna , idea proposta dall ' onorevole Swoboda , non merita un ' interrogazione urgente perché la motivazione è , in effetti , una questione squisitamente personale che riguarda il professor Pelinka . 
ITALIAN Le sue dimissioni dal Consiglio di amministrazione dell ' Osservatorio sono state volontarie . 
ITALIAN Il vero motivo va ricercato nel suo rifiuto di compiere un atto dovuto che compete a qualsiasi cittadino austriaco e che consiste nel render conto dell ' attività svolta quando per tale attività si viene remunerati dalla Repubblica Austriaca . 
ITALIAN Che cosa c ' entri il Parlamento europeo in tutto questo , rimane un interrogativo senza risposta . 
ITALIAN E ' pertanto evidente che ci rifiutiamo di votare a favore del considerando A della proposta di risoluzione , essendo per noi impossibile condividere le preoccupazioni espresse su questo caso . 
ITALIAN Va inoltre ricordato che l ' Osservatorio contro il razzismo ha sede a Vienna anche grazie all ' impegno dell ' attuale Cancelliere ed allora Ministro degli esteri Wolfgang Schüssel . Siamo orgogliosi di ospitare a Vienna tale istituzione , che mantiene uno sguardo vigile sui fenomeni della xenofobia e del razzismo in tutti i paesi europei , perché , come si deduce dalla relazione , nessun paese è al riparo da tali tendenze . 
ITALIAN In Austria ci sono inoltre delle normative assai severe sul neonazismo e sul reiterarsi di tali fenomeni . 
ITALIAN A questo punto andrebbe forse ricordato che un triste caso , il caso di Omufuma , ebbe luogo sotto la responsabilità di un ministro degli interni socialista . 
ITALIAN Evidentemente anche l ' onorevole Swoboda era cosciente della pochezza della sua proposta originaria , altrimenti non si sarebbe giunti ad una proposta di risoluzione ragionevole ed edulcorata nei suoi punti essenziali che può essere appoggiata da tutti . 
ITALIAN ( Applausi ) 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , non ho alcuna intenzione di approfondire le polemiche di bassa lega , in particolare quella innescata dall ' onorevole Pirker , e desidero invece mantenere la discussione ad un certo livello ed attenermi ai fatti . 
ITALIAN Il fatto è che l ' Osservatorio contro il razzismo e la xenofobia , nelle prime settimane di attività , ha incontrato delle difficoltà di natura politica e che in particolare il collega Pirker ha insultato rozzamente la Direttrice , che oggi invece ha presentato come testimone del buon andamento delle cose in seno all ' Osservatorio . 
ITALIAN Il fatto è ch. ed ho ricordato anche nel mio primo intervento odierno che i parlamentari che ora si profondono in lodi non erano qui luned. grazie a Dio le cose sono migliorate perché la dottoressa Winkler , Direttrice dell ' Osservatorio , si è impegnata , accanto al nuovo rappresentante del governo austriaco , a riportare le cose in equilibrio . 
ITALIAN E c ' è un altro fatto , cioè che la situazione continua ad essere precaria ; su questo punto sostengo , come la dottoressa Winkler , che non soltanto il governo austriaco ma anche altri governi non forniscono sufficiente appoggio all ' Osservatorio . 
ITALIAN Vi è quindi l ' urgenza di chiedere a tutti i govern. come da me propost. di sostenere l ' Osservatorio . 
ITALIAN A ciò si aggiunge un altro fatto , ovvero che , purtroppo , l ' annunciato referendum in Austria , contro il quale si sono espressi alcuni giorni fa i rappresentanti del Partito popolare europeo ed in particolare del Partito popolare austriaco appartenenti a questo Parlamento , potrebbe acuire la situazione ed esacerbare gli animi in Austria , risvegliando sentimenti antieuropei che non gioverebbe certo all ' operato dell ' Osservatorio . 
ITALIAN Pertanto desidero esprimere la mia opinione in questa sede e lanciare un appello al governo , ai responsabili del governo austriaco , affinché prendano le distanze dal referendum e non fomentino nuovo odio , non fomentino un nuovo sentire antieuropeo , che non può essere gradito ad un partito che , come il Partito popolare austriaco , è sempre stato europeista . 
ITALIAN Mi oppongo con decisione a tale clima e ripongo la mia speranza in questo Parlamento . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , premetto che il gruppo ELDR ha rifiutato di sottoscrivere la risoluzione comune per un semplice motivo : ci sembra un po ' troppo emotiva , le manca il rigore necessario e non offre la possibilità di una risposta più politica e più equilibrata da parte del Parlamento . 
ITALIAN Non voteremo la risoluzione perché è troppo debole . 
ITALIAN Non capisco il loro assenso sul testo presentato , molto diverso dalla versione iniziale che questi due gruppi avevano proposto . 
ITALIAN Noi del gruppo liberale auspichiam. ed è l ' auspicio dell ' onorevole Watso. che la sua commissione sia interpellata effettivamente su questo tema e che venga accertato in modo inequivocabile se il governo austriaco ha infranto l ' articolo 10 del Trattato , non adempiendo i propri obblighi nei confronti dell ' Osservatorio . 
ITALIAN Se esso è venuto meno ai suoi obblighi , spetta al Parlamento prendere dei provvedimenti di fronte alla Commissione e al Consiglio . 
ITALIAN Il punto è saperlo con certezza , e al momento non lo sappiamo . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , anche il mio gruppo appoggia la proposta del presidente della commissione per le libertà e i diritti dei cittadini , la giustizia e gli affari interni di trattare tutta la questione con grande attenzione in seno a questa commissione . 
ITALIAN Ciò nonostante , votiamo a favore della risoluzione perché , rispetto alle prime bozze , essa rappresenta una reazione moderata e responsabile alle dichiarazioni fatte dalla Direttrice dell ' Osservatorio dinanzi alla commissione per gli affari interni . 
ITALIAN Il Partito popolare europeo ha partecipato alle trattative ed alla definizione dell ' attuale testo della risoluzione . 
ITALIAN Mi sorprende quindi moltissimo che i parlamentari del Partito popolare austriaco non possano votare a favore della risoluzione che esprime unicamente una prima preoccupazione , un primo invito al governo austriaco , e che ci diano invece un assaggio dell ' atteggiamento che il governo austriaco riserva a chi lo critica . 
ITALIAN L ' onorevole Pirker ha dato lettura delle affermazioni della Direttrice dell ' Osservatorio tacendo le dichiarazioni più sconvolgenti sulla diffamazione dell ' Osservatorio in Parlamento , sugli abusi di potere , sull ' assenza di disposizioni in materia di sicurezza , sulla mancanza di appoggi che la Direttrice aveva invece esternato in seno alla commissione , dove era stata più volte aggredita con veemenza dallo stesso onorevole . 
ITALIAN Mi rincresce che i deputati del Partito polare austriaco ci diano una dimostrazione di come vengono trattati i detrattori del governo nel loro paese , ossia alla stregua di traditori della patria . 
ITALIAN Se avete udito le dichiarazioni dell ' onorevole Pirker in cui egli afferma che i critici del governo si rivoltano contro l ' Austria , non potete che considerarlo come un miserabile tentativo di generare artificialmente un conflitto tra la difesa dei diritti umani e il patriottismo . 
ITALIAN Una pratica spregevole ! 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , onorevoli colleghi , stiamo discutendo su una proposta di risoluzione che è priva di sostanza . 
ITALIAN Non è chiaro quali siano esattamente i punti in discussione ; stiamo , cioè , discutendo di qualcosa il cui contenuto non è chiaro . 
ITALIAN Chi conosce veramente la lettera di dimissioni del professor Pelinka ? 
ITALIAN Chi conosce le vere circostanze in cui hanno avuto luogo le dimissioni ? 
ITALIAN Ciò che si sa delle dimissioni del professor Pelinka in Austria è che al riguardo si intrecciano versioni diverse provenienti da più parti . 
ITALIAN Ciò che so per certo è che è ancora in corso un procedimento giudiziario tra l ' onorevole Haider e il professor Pelinka . 
ITALIAN In ogni Stato di diritto ci sono strumenti giuridici costituzionali . 
ITALIAN Un mondo politico che non rispetta l ' indipendenza della giustizia , non rispetta il principio cardine della divisione dei poteri e , di conseguenza , viola uno dei principi cardine della democrazia . 
ITALIAN Laddove il fenomeno si manifesta , va combattuto con tutti i mezzi possibili . 
ITALIAN Ciò che invece non mi aspetto dall ' Osservatorio è che si intrometta in questioni di politica quotidiana e che eserciti il proprio mandato seguendo un ' ideologia , perché dietro i concetti di razzismo e di xenofobia si celano persone ed i loro destini , che mal si adattano ad essere sfruttati per una messa in scena politica . 
ITALIAN Rientra tra le procedure abituali della Commissione non esprimere alcun parere su procedimenti giuridici che interessino singole persone nei paesi membri . 
ITALIAN Inoltre la Commissione non si può esprimere sui motivi che hanno indotto il professor Pelinka a presentare le dimissioni dal Consiglio di amministrazione dell ' Osservatorio . 
ITALIAN I Servizi della Commissione hanno già invitato le autorità austriache a nominare un nuovo membro all ' interno del Consiglio di amministrazione . 
ITALIAN La Commissione ribadisce l ' importanza dell ' indipendenza dei membri del Consiglio di amministrazione , come stabilito nel regolamento che istituisce l ' Osservatorio . 
ITALIAN Non vedo la necessità di ulteriori rassicurazioni da parte nostra essendo noto a tutti che la Commissione ha sostenuto l ' Osservatorio a Vienna con tutti i mezzi a sua disposizione e che lo farà anche in futuro . 
ITALIAN Siamo profondamente convinti che l ' Osservatorio svolga una funzione importante nella lotta contro il razzismo , la xenofobia e l ' antisemitismo . 
ITALIAN Desidero ricordare ancora una volta ed in modo esplicito che per la Commissione è di fondamentale importanza che , in qualsiasi circostanza , si preservi il carattere dell ' Osservatorio inteso come istituzione indipendente che gode della massima autonomia nell ' esercizio delle proprie funzioni . 
ITALIAN La discussione sui problemi di attualità , urgenti e di notevole rilevanza è chiusa . 
ITALIAN Prima della votazione sui bambini - soldato in Uganda 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , abbiamo concertato una proposta di risoluzione alla quale hanno collaborato cinque gruppi . 
ITALIAN A documento ultimato , un sesto gruppo si è associato alla risoluzione . 
ITALIAN Ritengo che sia contrario al Regolamento che un nuovo gruppo aderisca ad una proposta senza prima aver interpellato gli altri . 
ITALIAN Il mio gruppo lo considera una violazione del Regolamento e le chiedo pertanto , signor Presidente , di verificare la situazione . 
ITALIAN Avendo partecipato alla stesura della proposta di risoluzione , voteremo a favore ; la invito a far sì che la firma del sesto gruppo venga cancellata dalla presente proposta . 
ITALIAN La questione è già stata affrontata e , per quanto è di nostra conoscenza , non vi è alcuna norma che impedisca di firmare un ' altra risoluzione . 
ITALIAN La firma , perciò , può restare al suo posto . 
ITALIAN Tuttavia suggerisco di approfondire la questione a beneficio di casi futuri . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , si tratta della medesima situazione che ho delineato prima . 
ITALIAN Insisto nel richiedere una verifica della situazione perché proprio durante le sedute di questa settimana un nostro collega voleva sottoscrivere la proposta di risoluzione presentata da altri gruppi ed ha dovuto fornire l ' autorizzazione scritta di questi ultimi . 
ITALIAN Non possono essere applicate due procedure diverse nella stessa settimana . 
ITALIAN La prego pertanto di effettuare tale verifica e di comunicarcene i risultati . 
ITALIAN Appoggiamo questa proposta che ci ha visto partecipi nella stesura . 
ITALIAN Comprendo perfettamente quanto lei sta dicendo . 
ITALIAN Studieremo la questione ma , al momento , non sembra esserci alcuna norma al riguardo . 
ITALIAN Possiamo continuare in questo modo , ma perderemmo tempo . 
ITALIAN Il Presidente ha già risposto e mi pare che abbia assolutamente ragione . 
ITALIAN Non intendo avviare un ' ulteriore discussione sull ' argomento . 
ITALIAN La Presidenza provvederà certamente ad approfondire la questione . 
ITALIAN VOTAZIONI 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , intervengo per una questione di procedura . 
ITALIAN Considerando la discussione con il Consiglio avvenuta ieri sera , mi chiedo se la relazione in questione sia in effetti abbastanza coerente con la proposta originale , tanto da consentirci di procedere in prima lettura . 
ITALIAN Su un certo numero di emendamenti è certamente necessario avere ulteriori chiarimenti e mi pare che , mettendo ora in votazione tali emendamenti , l ' esito della relazione contrasterebbe con ciò su cui quest ' Aula è legittimata a votare . 
ITALIAN Vorrei quindi sapere se da un punto di vista procedurale sia corretto che l ' Aula effettui la votazione in questo momento . 
ITALIAN ( Il Parlamento approva la risoluzione legislativa ) 
ITALIAN Relazione ( A5 - 0180 / 2000 ) dell ' onorevole Mombaur a nome della commissione per l ' industria , il commercio estero , la ricerca e l ' energia sulla seconda relazione della Commissione al Consiglio e al Parlamento europeo sullo stato di liberalizzazione dei mercati dell ' energia ( COM ( 1999 ) 19 . 
ITALIAN COM ( 1999 ) 16 . 
ITALIAN COM ( 1999 ) 61 . 
ITALIAN COM ( 2000 ) 29 . 
ITALIAN 2000 / 2097 ( COS ) ) 
ITALIAN ( Il Parlamento approva la risoluzione ) 
ITALIAN Relazione ( A5 - 0169 / 2000 ) dell ' onorevole Radwan a nome della commissione per i problemi economici e monetari sul Rapporto annuale 1999 della Banca centrale europea ( C5 - 0195 / 200 . 
ITALIAN 2000 / 2118 ( COS ) ) 
ITALIAN ( Il Parlamento approva la risoluzione ) 
ITALIAN Relazione ( A5 - 0170 / 2000 ) dell ' onorevole Karas a nome della commissione per i problemi economici e monetari sulla comunicazione della Commissione relativa alla strategia di comunicazione nelle ultime fasi della realizzazione dell ' UEM ( COM ( 2000 ) 5 . 
ITALIAN 2000 / 2019 ( COS ) ) 
ITALIAN ( Il Parlamento approva la risoluzione ) 
ITALIAN Relazione ( A5 - 0162 / 2000 ) della onorevole Lambert a nome della commissione per le petizioni sulle deliberazioni della commissione per le petizioni nell ' anno parlamentare 1999 - 2000 
ITALIAN ( Il Parlamento approva la risoluzione ) 
ITALIAN Relazione ( A5 - 0181 / 2000 ) della onorevole Thors a nome della commissione per le petizioni sulla relazione annuale del Mediatore europeo relativa al 1999 ( C5 - 0303 / 2000 ) 
ITALIAN ( Il Parlamento approva la risoluzione ) 
ITALIAN Relazione ( A5 - 0141 / 2000 ) dell ' onorevole Atkins a nome della commissione per la politica regionale , i trasporti e il turismo sulla comunicazione della Commissione " Trasporti aerei : la creazione del cielo unico europeo " ( COM ( 1999 ) 61 . 
ITALIAN C5 ­ 0085 / 200 . 
ITALIAN 2000 / 2053 ( COS ) ) 
ITALIAN Relazione ( A5 - 0155 / 2000 ) della onorevole Damião a nome della commissione per l ' occupazione e gli affari sociali concernente la relazione della Commissione sull ' applicazione della direttiva del Consiglio 92 / 85 / CEE del 19 ottobre 1992 relativa all ' attuazione di misure volte a promuovere il miglioramento della sicurezza e della salute sul lavoro delle lavoratrici gestanti , puerpere o in periodo di allattamento ( COM ( 1999 ) 10 . 
ITALIAN C5 ­ 0158 / 199 . 
ITALIAN 1999 / 2151 ( COS ) ) Relatrice per parere " Procedura Hughes " : Emilia Franziska Müller , commissione per i diritti della donna e le pari opportunit . 
ITALIAN La votazione è chiusa . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , intervengo solo per fare una precisazione in merito alle informazioni comunicate a questa Assemblea alcuni minuti fa . 
ITALIAN In effetti , l ' incidente accaduto in Spagna è molto grave . 
ITALIAN Il numero di bambini che vi hanno perso la vita è 27 e le loro famiglie , alle quali desideriamo porgere le nostre più sentite condoglianze , sono di Cerdanyola del Vallés e di Viladecans , a Barcellona . 
ITALIAN Provvederò ad accertare che la Presidente sia pienamente informata dei fatti e che si faccia quanto da lei richiesto . 
ITALIAN E ' necessario disporre di maggiori informazioni sulla gravità della tragedia . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , ho votato a favore della relazione Redondo , che regolamenta l ' intervento dell ' Unione europea in caso di incendi e di inquinamento atmosferico . 
ITALIAN Certamente è un provvedimento positivo . 
ITALIAN Ho votato a favore , ma gradirei che in futuro si tenesse conto , nell ' applicazione di questa proposta , che presso le foreste vivono molti anziani e pensionati che sono , a volte , gli unici rimasti nelle campagne e nelle zone isolate , nelle quali di frequente si verificano degli incendi . 
ITALIAN Sarebbe bene , quindi , anzi opportuno , utilizzare queste persone nella lotta contro gli incendi . 
ITALIAN Nella presente relazione sono previste modifiche agli attuali regolamenti sulla protezione delle foreste della Comunità contro l ' inquinamento atmosferico e gli incendi . 
ITALIAN Per il Portogallo hanno particolare importanza le modifiche al regolamento relativo alla lotta contro gli incendi forestali . 
ITALIAN In realtà è necessario attribuire sempre maggior attenzione alla macchia mediterranea in quanto è colpita da incendi forestali , e quindi è necessaria una grande disponibilità di mezzi finanziari per procedere al rimboschimento e per attuare le opportune misure di prevenzione degli incendi . 
ITALIAN Per il Portogallo , dove gli incendi hanno distrutto importanti zone forestali , è fondamentale aumentare gli stanziamenti onde integrare gli investimenti nazionali , includendo la costruzione di infrastrutture e l ' acquisizione di attrezzature fra le attività da svolgere ai fini della prevenzione degli incendi , sia attraverso le autonomie amministrative sia attraverso associazioni di proprietari privati o organi di gestione dei terreni incolti . 
ITALIAN E ' importante , inoltre , creare un sistema comunitario di informazione sugli incendi forestali che permetta una conoscenza più approfondita della situazione attuale , in modo da permettere una lotta più efficace contro gli incendi forestali e le loro cause . 
ITALIAN Vorrei esprimermi a titolo personale sulla relazione a proposito delle foreste . 
ITALIAN Da parte mia , ritengo che abbiamo la responsabilità politica di inviare segnali politici forti alla Commissione , al Consiglio e ai cittadini . 
ITALIAN Nel dicembre 1999, una parte dell ' Unione europea è stata devastata da terribili tempeste che hanno distrutto gran parte delle foreste della Francia meridionale e orientale e indotto alla disperazione le vittime dei disastri , in particolare i piccoli proprietari . 
ITALIAN So anche che non si veste Pietro togliendo i vestiti a Paolo . 
ITALIAN Votando a favore delle proposte del relatore ho voluto contribuire alla messa in opera di una vera politica forestale dell ' Unione . Nonostante il bilancio colossale della PAC , il patrimonio forestale , che rientra nella politica agricola , continua ad essere trascurato . 
ITALIAN Sono in esame due regolamenti del Consiglio che istituiscono un sistema , unico al mondo , di sorveglianza sistematica degli ecosistemi forestali . 
ITALIAN Il regolamento n . 3582 / 86 concerne la protezione delle foreste dall ' inquinamento atmosferico , mentre il regolamento n . 
ITALIAN 2158 / 92 definisce un quadro nella lotta contro gli incendi delle foreste . Il relatore propone di aumentare gli stanziamenti destinati a questi due programmi , mentre la Commissione vuole ridurli drasticamente . 
ITALIAN L ' approccio del relatore è quello giusto . 
ITALIAN Sarebbe logico tenere in conto che dal 199. data dell ' ultimo ampliament. la superficie boschiva della Comunità è quasi raddoppiata , nonché agire in conformità delle esigenze della strategia forestale dell ' Unione europea . 
ITALIAN Certo , nel Trattato non c ' è una base giuridica che autorizzi una politica forestale comune . 
ITALIAN Non si tratta di servirsi della relazione per rilanciare il dibattito , bensì di ricordare che la strategia forestale europea si basa sulla sussidiarietà . 
ITALIAN In altri termini , un ' azione viene proposta solo se essa presenta un valore aggiunto rispetto ad un ' azione a livello nazionale . 
ITALIAN In questo ambito preciso , la sussidiarietà gioca a favore di un ' azione comunitaria . 
ITALIAN E ' vero che i problemi non si pongono negli stessi termini per le foreste dei Quindici . 
ITALIAN Ad esempio , i paesi nordici ( che hanno fornito il grosso del capitale boschivo al momento dell ' ampliamento del 1998 ) sono sensibili all ' inquinamento atmosferico , all ' incidenza dei cambiamenti climatici e all ' acidificazione del suolo , mentre gli Stati dell ' Europa meridionale sono più esposti agli effetti della desertificazione , della siccità e degli incendi . 
ITALIAN L ' aumento degli stanziamenti giunge al momento opportuno . A seguito delle spaventose tempeste del dicembre scorso , i nostri massicci boschivi sono esposti al pericolo di incendi , e in queste zone infatti sono stati recensiti numerosi casi d ' incendio . 
ITALIAN La prevenzione di catastrofi come queste presuppone un miglioramento della sicurezza per i casi d ' incendio . 
ITALIAN Per quanto riguarda l ' inquinamento atmosferico , esso sta acquisendo una nuova dimensione alla luce degli orientamenti che la Commissione si è prefissata in materia di cambiamenti climatici , di biodiversità e di gestione duratura . 
ITALIAN La sorveglianza degli ecosistemi si prospetta come un ambito multidisciplinare . 
ITALIAN Se l ' inquinamento atmosferico ha perso la sua attualità scottante rispetto a queste nuove priorità , esso si integra in modo coerente nelle sfide planetarie . 
ITALIAN Il merito del problema resta in ogni caso politico . 
ITALIAN Sono stati avanzati alcuni dubbi a proposito dell ' importanza delle foreste per gli Stati membri , quando l ' industria forestale in Europa dà lavoro a due milioni duecentomila persone e le foreste ricoprono il 36 percento della superficie dell ' Unione ! 
ITALIAN 
ITALIAN E ' come un cane che si morde la coda : i regolamenti in esame necessitano di un sostegno politico , ma perché tale sostegno venga loro accordato è necessario che le reti di sorveglianza siano in grado di individuare i cambiamenti e i rischi . Un sostegno finanziario è necessario per provare scientificamente l ' esistenza di tali rischi . 
ITALIAN In attesa dell ' estensione dei programmi oltre il 2001, fa parte delle nostre responsabilità politiche sostenerli finanziariamente . 
ITALIAN I dati raccolti dovrebbero infatti servire come supporto tecnico alle decisioni politiche in ambiti in cui vige il principio " senza evidenza , nessun intervento " . 
ITALIAN Le immani catastrofi che hanno colpito le foreste negli ultimi anni e le carenze nell ' azione di contenimento mettono a repentaglio sia l ' equilibrio ecologico sia la salute , la sicurezza e i valori sociali e culturali indissolubilmente legati al patrimonio forestale . 
ITALIAN Negli ultimi anni le regioni montane e boschive , specie quelle del bacino del Mediterraneo , hanno gravemente sofferto a causa del disboscamento , degli incendi , della desertificazione , dell ' abbandono , dello sfruttamento abusivo e di un rimboschimento insufficiente , con la conseguente perdita di decine di migliaia di ettari di preziose superfici boschive . 
ITALIAN Vorrei proporvi l ' esempio drammatico della Grecia , che vanta il triste primato europeo di superfici bruciate . 
ITALIAN Solo il 10 percento delle aree andate distrutte in Grecia viene rimboscato ; il restante 90 percento viene abbandonato o , nella maggior parte dei casi , viene sfruttato per costruirvi abusivamente ( ad esempio , imprese turistiche di norma favorite dal governo di turno ) da chi ha l ' interesse economico e sa approfittare degli incendi ( o ne è direttamente responsabile ) , dell ' irrisolto problema della proprietà , della mancanza di un catasto forestale e della mancata registrazione del patrimonio forestale dello Stato , al fine di massimizzare i propri profitti . 
ITALIAN E ' un fatto che nell ' Unione esistono una grande varietà di foreste ( boreale , temperata , mediterranea e tropicale ) e altrettanta varietà di problemi e peculiarità . 
ITALIAN Sinora la politica forestale dell ' UE , con le sue azioni frammentarie , congiunturali , incongruenti e limitate e con fondi insufficienti a disposizione , non solo non è riuscita ad affrontare alla radice i problemi , ma si scontra ora anche con le decisioni della Commissione , che propone di ridurre ulteriormente i già scarsi fondi per la tutela delle foreste dagli incendi e dall ' inquinamento atmosferico . 
ITALIAN I problemi non sono stati risolti , ma anzi si sono aggravati . 
ITALIAN Una simile politica è tipica non di un ipocrita , ma di un complice o di un incendiario . 
ITALIAN Persistiamo quindi nelle nostre posizioni . 
ITALIAN Esortiamo il Parlamento a ricordare le ripetute risoluzioni e le prese di posizione circa la necessità di rafforzare le misure di prevenzione e di lotta agli incendi , nonché di tutela e valorizzazione del patrimonio forestale in tutte le regioni dell ' Unione . 
ITALIAN Riteniamo che le risorse finanziarie dell ' UE , destinate alle foreste , siano state e continuino ad essere inadeguate e quindi chiediamo un loro incremento per soddisfare il fabbisogno reale e per tener conto dell ' importanza delle foreste . 
ITALIAN E ' necessario intraprendere , in collaborazione con le autorità e gli organismi competenti nazionali e locali , le opportune iniziative per elaborare un ' efficace politica forestale e attuare un ' azione immediata e coordinata , allo scopo di rilanciare e rimboschire le aree boschive andate distrutte , rispettando le condizioni climatiche ed ecologiche di ciascuna regione e tenendo conto dei più moderni dati e metodi scientifici a disposizione . Occorre ribadire che è imprescindibile che l ' Unione e i vari governi mettano a disposizione fondi per la creazione delle necessarie infrastrutture e per l ' assunzione di personale adeguato , dato che quello attuale , a giudicare dalla situazione in Grecia , è assolutamente insufficiente . 
ITALIAN In tal modo potremo contribuire alla tutela , allo sviluppo , al riassetto ecologico e alla valorizzazione produttiva delle foreste in detti paesi . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , mi sono astenuto nella votazione sulla relazione Arvidsson sulla proibizione dell ' uso degli ftalati . 
ITALIAN Mi sono astenuto come tutto il gruppo del Partito popolare europeo , ma la mia è stata un ' astensione ulteriormente dubbiosa ; dubbiosa perché poco prima di venire in Aula per la votazione mi sono chiesto : visto che proibiamo l ' uso di una sostanza , gli ftalati , non ovunque e sempre nel nostro territorio ma soltanto allorquando si usano gli ftalati nei giocattoli per bambini , che succederà alle ditte che producono gli ftalati ? 
ITALIAN Non succederà che magari utilizzeranno questi ftalati per altri scopi ? 
ITALIAN Forse per oggetti che possono essere di uso degli anziani e dei pensionati ? 
ITALIAN O forse di altro uso ? 
ITALIAN Questo mi preoccuperebbe molto ! 
ITALIAN Non voglio continuare , signor Presidente , perché non siamo a porte chiuse , quindi preferisco fermarmi qui . 
ITALIAN Ove venga adottato l ' emendamento n . 6 all ' articolo 2 della direttiva , vale la seguente dichiarazione di voto del gruppo PPE - DE del Parlamento europeo . 
ITALIAN I deputati del gruppo PPE - DE hanno scelto di astenersi dal voto sul progetto di risoluzione legislativa in quanto è stato adottato l ' emendamento n . 6 all ' articolo 2 della direttiva . 
ITALIAN La causa : l ' avvertenza riportata su giocattoli e articoli per l ' infanzia , prodotto integralmente o parzialmente in PVC morbido contenente ftalati , e sulle loro confezioni , destinati a bambini fra i 3 e i 6 anni d ' età è molto difficile da gestire e rischia di rivelarsi in realtà una sorta di indiretto divieto generalizzato . 
ITALIAN Il contenuto di questa decisione presa sull ' etichettatura va pertanto al di là del fondamento scientifico su cui si regge la direttiva . 
ITALIAN Il dossier sulla sicurezza dei giocattoli mi sta particolarmente a cuore . 
ITALIAN Sono stato relatore su questo tema nel 1992 e seguo con la massima attenzione gli sviluppi legislativi in tale materia . 
ITALIAN Per quanto riguarda gli ftalati , sostanze chimiche utilizzate per rendere il PVC più morbido , mi sono sempre battuto a favore di misure efficaci per tutelare nel modo migliore quel gruppo di consumatori particolarmente vulnerabili costituito dai bambini . 
ITALIAN Sperimentazioni sugli animali hanno dimostrato la tossicità e il carattere cancerogeno di taluni ftalati . Tali sostanze possono infatti provocare malattie al fegato , ai reni e ai testicoli in bambini che succhiano o mordicchiano ciucci , dentaroli o giocattoli . 
ITALIAN L ' elenco dei rischi ha suscitato la legittima inquietudine dei genitori , e questo avrebbe dovuto portare all ' adozione di misure decise dettate dal principio della precauzione . 
ITALIAN Ora , il meno che si possa dire è che la reazione della Commissione , sebbene sia stata relativamente rapida ( richiesta di parere al comitato scientifico , studi di tossicità , di ecotossicità e di effetti sull ' ambiente , decisione di divieto d ' urgenza e proposta di modifica delle direttive interessate ) è stata insufficiente rispetto alla posta in gioco e all ' obiettivo di garantire un livello elevato di protezione dei consumatori e della salute umana . 
ITALIAN Cosa ci ha proposto la Commissione europea ? 
ITALIAN Ci ha proposto di vietare i giocattoli contenenti uno dei sei ftalati incriminati , destinati a essere introdotti in bocca dai bambini di età inferiore ai tre anni , e di rivedere la direttiva tra quattro anni . 
ITALIAN Ovviamente questi provvedimenti sono del tutto insufficienti ! 
ITALIAN E ' assurdo prevedere un divieto solo per i giocattoli o gli oggetti destinati ad essere introdotti in bocca . 
ITALIAN Infatti , come i genitori sanno , i bambini piccoli mettono tutto in bocca . 
ITALIAN E ' necessario dunque vietare i giocattoli e gli oggetti che contengono ftalati che potrebbero essere totalmente o parzialmente messi in bocca . 
ITALIAN La mancanza d ' informazioni scientifiche affidabili sulla migrazione di tali sostanze chimiche nell ' organismo deve indurci ad applicare il principio della precauzione . 
ITALIAN Per evitare di incitare i bambini a mordere o succhiare i loro giocattoli , dovrebbe essere aggiunta una disposizione supplementare che preveda il divieto di utilizzare sostanze aromatiche . 
ITALIAN Occorre prevedere una revisione della direttiva in modo da aggiornarla in funzione dei progressi delle conoscenze scientifiche . 
ITALIAN Sono convinto che , allo stato attuale delle nostre informazioni , dobbiamo dare prova della massima prudenza . 
ITALIAN Ho sostenuto gli emendamenti presentati dai deputati socialisti della commissione per l ' ambiente . 
ITALIAN Concludo ricordando che , per quanto riguarda il dossier sulla sicurezza dei giocattoli , le norme in materia di marchi CE sono troppo ambigue e dovrebbero rapidamente essere chiarite . 
ITALIAN . ( FI ) Non si è potuta dimostrare scientificamente la tossicità degli ftalati per la salute umana . 
ITALIAN Negli Stati Uniti , ad esempio , la ricerca effettuata dalla U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission ha stabilito che è ben rar. posto che accad. che un bambino possa correre il rischio di essere esposto a sostanze chimiche nocive , dato che la quantità di ftalati presenti nei giocattoli non supera il livello di tossicità . 
ITALIAN Data l ' esigua quantità di ftalati che potrebbero passare dai giocattoli all ' organismo del bambino , i ricercatori non si pronunziano a favore del divieto degli ftalati . 
ITALIAN Personalmente , non incoraggio " gli eccessi di protezione allarmistica " e il divieto portato all ' estremo che non sia fondato su dati scientifici . 
ITALIAN Gli ftalati hanno scarsi effetti tossici immediati e non irritano né le mucose né la pelle . 
ITALIAN Nonostante negli anni ottanta sia stato dimostrato che ingenti dosi di ftalati causano ai ratti e ai topi neoformazioni tumorali al fegato , le fonti ufficiali in Europa e negli Stati Uniti non hanno confermato il pericolo che gli ftalati provochino tumori nell ' uomo . 
ITALIAN Inoltre , aborrisco il pensiero che gli ftalati siano sostituiti da sostanze di cui non si conoscono gli effetti . 
ITALIAN Sono , comunque , a favore della conduzione di ulteriori ricerche su quegli ftalati dei cui effetti non si può essere certi . 
ITALIAN Dal punto di vista pratico , tuttavia , il problema è di poco conto , giacché l ' industria europea dei giocattoli ha per la maggior parte abbandonato l ' uso degli ftalati . 
ITALIAN Relazione Hieronymi ( A5 - 0186 / 2000 ) 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , sulla relazione MEDIA ho votato a favore ma credo che , essendo gli anziani e i pensionati quelli che seguono più di frequente le nostre televisioni e che quindi sono molto interessati a questi aiuti dell ' Unione europea , sarebbe bene che potessero vedere una televisione europea , dei programmi europei che vanno in onda su una televisione europea . 
ITALIAN Credo che si riuscirebbe maggiormente a mantenere la cultura delle nostre nazioni , conosciuta in Europa , anziché importare solamente filmati di altri Stati tra cui , soprattutto , gli Stati Uniti d ' America . 
ITALIAN I cristiano democratici svedesi avanzano obiezioni di fondo , in base al principio di sussidiarietà sancito dai Trattati di Maastricht e di Amsterdam , contro l ' idea che fondi dell ' UE possano essere impiegati per lo sviluppo , la produzione e la commercializzazione di ciò che si definisce film europeo e per la formazione cinematografica . 
ITALIAN Questi fondi sarebbero ben più necessari alla ricostruzione in Kosovo , un intervento di assistenza europea che non ha ancora trovato una soluzione sul piano finanziario dopo un anno di scontri sul bilancio all ' interno dell ' Unione . 
ITALIAN L ' intenzione di controbilanciare lo strapotere americano in ambito cinematografico e culturale è comprensibile e lodevole , ma si tratta di un compito che spetta all ' industria cinematografica privata e agli Stati membri stessi . 
ITALIAN L ' Unione europea deve piuttosto pensare a fare piazza pulita di tutti i compiti che non hanno a che vedere con le sue finalità principali . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , per quanto concerne le relazioni seguite da discussione , vorrei che lei pregasse gli onorevoli colleghi di presentare le proprie dichiarazioni di voto per iscritto o almeno di rimanere in Aula sino alla fine per esprimerle oralmente , così come hanno diritto di fare . 
ITALIAN Per ciascuno di noi , a quest ' ora la dichiarazione di voto per iscritto rappresenta una questione di rispetto nei confronti dell ' Assemblea . 
ITALIAN Prendiamo nota della sua osservazione , onorevole Mastorakis . 
ITALIAN Relazione Sanders - ten Holte ( A5 - 0185 / 2000 ) 
ITALIAN Ci siamo astenute dalla votazione su questo progetto sebbene siamo persuase che una politica di scambi e di cooperazione tra i diversi paesi nell ' ambito dell ' insegnamento contribuirebbe a migliorarne la qualità , favorendo l ' incontro tra le culture e gli scambi tra i popoli che vivono in Europa . 
ITALIAN Tuttavia , un tale orientamento sarà un fattore di progresso solo se sarà basato su una politica dell ' educazione dei diversi Stati che miri ad accordare maggiori mezzi all ' insegnamento pubblico accessibile a tutti . 
ITALIAN Tale priorità non figura nei testi , ma soprattutto non è applicata in alcuno degli Stati dell ' Unione europea . 
ITALIAN Ci preoccupa il fatto che diverse affermazioni esprimano una concezione limitata e utilitaristica di una cooperazione i cui obiettivi sarebbero dettati dalle esigenze del mercato e dalle iniziative di imprese o di organismi privati a caccia di mano d ' opera che intendono formare e qualificare in funzione dei loro bisogni . 
ITALIAN Introdurre le leggi del mercato nell ' educazione vuol dire renderla peggiore per la maggioranza e riservare la qualità a una minoranza . 
ITALIAN Per questo motivo abbiamo votato a favore degli emendamenti che mettono in guardia contro un ruolo troppo importante del mercato nell ' educazione . 
ITALIAN E ' noto che la definizione della qualità dell ' insegnamento è una questione politica molto complessa , dato che dipende in particolare dagli obiettivi predefiniti , dai mezzi a disposizione per conseguirli e dalle condizioni che caratterizzano la sua realizzazione . 
ITALIAN Di conseguenza , la cooperazione a livello europeo sulla valutazione della qualità e sugli indicatori di qualità non deve servire a produrre modelli di valutazione , dato che è essenziale mantenere la diversità dei metodi e degli approcci tenendo presenti i diversi contesti nazionali , la situazione storica , sociale , culturale e politica di ogni paese . 
ITALIAN La cooperazione possibile fatta in base allo scambio di esperienze sulla valutazione della qualità dell ' insegnamento elementare e secondario deve , pertanto , tener conto del fatto che riguarda un settore particolarmente sensibile , che deve rispettare integralmente la responsabilità degli Stati membri circa il contenuto dell ' insegnamento e l ' organizzazione dei sistemi di educazione e formazione , unitamente alla diversità culturale e linguistica . 
ITALIAN Relazione Mombaur ( A5 - 0180 / 2000 ) 
ITALIAN Vorrei auspicare che , nell ' attuazione di questo considerando , si stabilisca che , per quanto riguarda le forniture di gas ad uso domestico , si tenga conto che tante persone non hanno reddit. e tra questi i pensionati che non hanno abbastanza per viver. per cui dovrebbe essere prescritta una franchigia per utilizzare una certa quantità di gas , o di energia di altro tipo , fornita gratuitamente . 
ITALIAN Questa relazione è , nel merito e in ciascuna delle sue affermazioni , un panegirico della concorrenza e dell ' economia di mercato . 
ITALIAN L ' unica preoccupazione del suo autore , con il pretesto di unificare i mercati dell ' energia in Europa , è quella di affidare l ' intero settore nelle mani dei privati . 
ITALIAN Più esattamente , separando la produzione dell ' elettricità dalla gestione delle reti di distribuzione , il relatore concede agli Stati di occuparsi delle attività che richiedono enormi investimenti e sono poco redditizie , a condizione che essi lascino ai privati le attività più redditizie . 
ITALIAN L ' unificazione della produzione e della distribuzione dell ' energia di tutta l ' Unione europea e la pianificazione e razionalizzazione di questi due aspetti potrebbero rappresentare un progresso , se l ' insieme continuasse ad essere un servizio pubblico esclusivamente volto al soddisfacimento dei bisogni e non alla massimizzazione del profitto privato . 
ITALIAN L ' approccio del relatore è esattamente antitetico . 
ITALIAN Se il " processo di liberalizzazione " che egli auspica avesse luogo ci sarebbe una regressione ; di conseguenza abbiamo votato contro la relazione . 
ITALIAN Come nuovo deputato di questo Parlamento , confesso di essere sgomento ! 
ITALIAN Non ho partecipato alla precedente legislatura durante la quale si è assistito alla grande " svendita " del concetto di servizio pubblico " alla francese " . Parlo proprio di svendita , come quella organizzata nei settori dei trasporti , delle poste o delle telecomunicazioni . 
ITALIAN Prefiggendosi di analizzare lo stato di applicazione delle direttive sull ' elettricità ( del dicembre 1996 ) e sul gas ( del giugno 1998 ) , la relazione Mombaur lascia chiaramente trasparire la filosofia ultraliberale della Commissione , la quale chiede , col pretesto di realizzare il mercato interno dell ' energia a tutto vantaggio dei consumatori , la totale apertura dei mercati alla piena concorrenza . 
ITALIAN Il processo è sempre lo stesso : la Commissione propone una direttiva minimalista argomentando che la liberalizzazione può avere effetti positivi soltanto in un contesto di deregolamentazione . 
ITALIAN e la Commissione , infine , " regolarizza " successivamente una situazione di fatto in maniera ancora più vincolante . 
ITALIAN Un processo , quindi , tanto più inaccettabile in quanto i problemi sono ancora irrisolti . 
ITALIAN Perché realizzare un mercato unico dell ' energia quando elettricità e gas non sono comparabili ( in termini di produzione / distribuzione , di andamento del mercato , di nozione di servizio pubblico ) ? 
ITALIAN Come chiedere ad un prestatore di un servizio pubblico di assicurare continuità ed equità quando tale esercizio non è economicamente redditizio ? 
ITALIAN E allo stesso tempo , come chiedere ai vecchi monopoli di entrare oggi in un regime di piena concorrenza quando devono continuare ad ammortizzare pesanti investimenti che sono il frutto delle scelte politiche di un tempo ? 
ITALIAN Come pretendere prezzi sempre più bassi in nome di una ormai insindacabile concorrenza , senza rimettere in discussione le attuali esigenze di sicurezza nucleare ? 
ITALIAN Come sostituire il concetto nazionale di servizio pubblico con quello comunitario , molto più restrittivo , di missione di interesse generale ? 
ITALIAN Potrei andare avanti così per pagine e pagine . 
ITALIAN Non dimenticate che ci sono voluti decenni di tradizione repubblicana per costruire un po ' alla volta i nostri servizi pubblici , mentre quattro anni di periodo di recepimento basteranno per vanificarli completamente ! 
ITALIAN Il liberismo può essere opportuno , è vero , ma a condizione che venga gestito con gradualità , moderazione e senza escludere definitivamente l ' intervento dello Stato , salvo rischiare , un domani , di subire le conseguenze finanziarie di una simile rinuncia . 
ITALIAN Com ' è noto , al Consiglio europeo di Santa Maria da Feira la Commissione era stata invitata a " presentare una relazione sull ' evoluzione dei mercati dell ' energia , fino al marzo 2001, nei termini della strategia di Lisbona " , in modo da valutare i progressi compiuti nell ' ambito della liberalizzazione del mercato dell ' elettricità in occasione del Consiglio di Stoccolma del marzo 2001 . 
ITALIAN Di conseguenza , con l ' appoggio di vari governi e durante la Presidenza portoghese , sono stati rafforzati diversi meccanismi di pressione destinati ad accelerare il processo che era già in corso con una direttiva sull ' elettricità risalente al dicembre 1996, che prevedeva l ' apertura a fasi del mercato , da attuarsi in modo graduale fino al 2003, mentre la direttiva del 1998, relativa al gas naturale , prevede l ' ultima fase di apertura di questo settore nel 2008, con gravi conseguenze per il Portogallo , soprattutto per l ' EDP , i suoi lavoratori e i consumatori portoghesi . 
ITALIAN In questo modo , sono messi in secondo piano sia i problemi dell ' impiego dei lavoratori delle imprese del settore , sia gli interessi di ogni Stato membro , compresa la difesa di un servizio pubblico di qualità che venga incontro agli interessi dei consumatori . 
ITALIAN A tutto ciò noi siamo assolutamente contrari . 
ITALIAN Scopo della presente relazione è giustificare la liberalizzazione del settore non solo dell ' energia elettrica ma anche del gas naturale . 
ITALIAN In sostanza , essa sottrae allo Stato un settore produttivo d ' importanza strategica e ne consegna l ' intera attività nelle mani del capitale privato , affinché quest ' ultimo possa aumentare i propri profitti . 
ITALIAN Lo Stato è relegato al ruolo di semplice coordinatore degli interessi monopolistici e di supervisore degli orientamenti stabiliti dall ' UE a scapito dell ' economia nazionale e degli interessi del popolo . 
ITALIAN La logica della relazione non è certo dettata dall ' esigenza di rispettare gli interessi popolari , cioè del semplice cittadino , o di sviluppare il paese , bensì dal soddisfacimento degli interessi dei grandi monopoli . 
ITALIAN La relazione contiene diverse imprecisioni nel tentativo di presentare nel modo migliore la liberalizzazione del settore energetico . 
ITALIAN Ad esempio , non è vero che in Gran Bretagna la concorrenza abbia portato ad una riduzione dei prezzi e ad un incremento nel numero degli occupati . 
ITALIAN A quattro - cinque anni dalla privatizzazione dell ' energia elettrica , si sono registrati un forte aumento dei prezzi e una riduzione del personale , ed è stata sospesa l ' elaborazione di un programma nazionale di sviluppo a lungo termine nel settore dell ' energia elettrica . 
ITALIAN In un altro punto della stessa relazione si ammette che c ' è stato un calo del numero degli occupati come conseguenza della liberalizzazione , ma si prevede anche un aumento del numero di posti di lavoro in settori non produttivi , in borsa , nella pubblicità , nelle società di intermediazione finanziaria , eccetera . 
ITALIAN E ' inaccettabile che , nel nome della presunta concorrenza , un ente pubblico sia costretto a mettere a disposizione dei privati una rete di trasporto e distribuzione di enorme valore . 
ITALIAN Se l ' Unione europea volesse veramente una sana concorrenza , secondo il suo modo di vedere , dovrebbe obbligare i privati a costruire le proprie reti e unità produttive per mettersi in concorrenza con gli enti pubblici , senza costringere invece gli enti pubblici ad " offrire " le proprie reti ai concorrenti . 
ITALIAN Così facendo vogliono semplicemente agevolare il trasferimento di ricchezze a favore del grande capitale . 
ITALIAN Per questo motivo si tenta di separare i settori , in modo da impedire all ' ente pubblico di puntare ad un risultato ottimale nelle sue attività verticalizzate ed essere così competitivo . 
ITALIAN La produzione di energia non è un semplice bene di consumo , in quanto questo settore è particolarmente importante per lo sviluppo economico di un paese e vitale per la sua difesa . 
ITALIAN La liberalizzazione dei mercati dell ' energia mette quindi a repentaglio non solo la sicurezza , ma anche lo sviluppo del paese . 
ITALIAN Il pericolo è tangibile visto che , come si sottolinea nella relazione , " le imprese dei servizi pubblici devono operare sul mercato europeo , nell ' Europa senza frontiere ; tali imprese non sono più strettamente nazionali , come non lo sono nemmeno i loro azionisti " . 
ITALIAN Per queste considerazioni , gli europarlamentari del gruppo GUE / NGL hanno votato contro la relazione Mombaur . 
ITALIAN E ' positivo che gli sforzi volti alla creazione di un mercato dell ' energia liberalizzato sembrino ora dare frutti . 
ITALIAN La maggior parte dei paesi è ormai in una fase avanzata della ristrutturazione del mercato . 
ITALIAN Alcuni paesi hanno già attuato una piena liberalizzazione , e mi fa particolarmente piacere che la Danimarca faccia parte del gruppo di testa . 
ITALIAN La Danimarca deve sfruttare questa posizione favorevole e completare la liberalizzazione , come è già avvenuto , tra gli altri paesi , in Svezia . 
ITALIAN E ' perciò deplorevole che il governo danese non preveda apparentemente per il momento di compiere l ' ultimo passo verso la piena liberalizzazione . 
ITALIAN L ' ottima relazione dell ' onorevole Mombaur colpisce nel segno su molti punti . 
ITALIAN Occorre in particolare segnalare che è importante che si pensi sin d ' ora alla situazione dei paesi candidati . 
ITALIAN La liberalizzazione del mercato dell ' energia dei paesi dell ' Europa orientale richiederà misure particolari , e occorre soprattutto tenere conto dell ' aspetto ambientale . 
ITALIAN E ' altresì importante sottolineare che la produzione di energia elettrica deve essere trasparente e che un aiuto speciale non deve in alcun modo costituire una distorsione della concorrenza . 
ITALIAN Relazione Radwan ( A5 - 0169 / 2000 ) 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , queste non sono dichiarazioni di voto , ma una prosecuzione della discussione . 
ITALIAN Non so ancora come abbia votato l ' onorevole Berthu , né mi interessa saperlo , ma questa non è una dichiarazione di voto , ma una continuazione della discussione . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , ho votato a favore della relazione Radwan nonostante al punto 9, a pagina 8, si chieda di accelerare le riforme strutturali dei sistemi di previdenza sociale , con una formulazione che , per così dire , mi ha lasciato qualche dubbio . 
ITALIAN Ecco , se fosse questa l ' intenzione della relazione , vorrei sottolineare che si dovrebbe invece intendere come una razionalizzazione nell ' evitare gli sprechi nei pagamenti di prestazioni previdenziali assistenziali che , se fossero meglio amministrate , eviterebbero di dover continuamente diminuire le prestazioni , tagliando le pensioni agli anziani in tutta l ' Europa . 
ITALIAN La relazione in esame fa l ' apologia delle politiche monetarie della Banca centrale europea ( BCE ) , segnatamente della stabilità dei prezzi , dimenticando che , attualmente , non viviamo in un momento di diminuzione continua dei tassi di interesse bensì , al contrario , in una fase di continui aumenti , con ripercussioni molto gravi sui redditi delle famiglie con scarse risorse economiche , che ricorrono al credito bancario per acquistare una casa di proprietà , come succede in Portogallo . 
ITALIAN Per il relatore , che si congratula con l ' attuazione della BCE , è fondamentale l ' osservazione rigorosa dei criteri di convergenza nominale del patto di stabilità , anche per i paesi candidati all ' adesione , e delle politiche connesse , in particolar modo la moderazione salariale , la flessibilizzazione del mercato del lavoro e dei sistemi di sicurezza sociale e l ' accelerazione della liberalizzazione dei servizi e dei capitali . 
ITALIAN Alle sue critiche il relatore aggiunge anche quella verso i paesi della zona euro che hanno ridotto il tempo di lavoro e , così facendo , hanno contribuito , dal suo punto di vista , a " rendere il mercato del lavoro più rigido invece di renderlo più flessibile " . 
ITALIAN In questo modo il relatore si colloca nella posizione di difesa del più raffinato neoliberalismo capitalista , al quale possiamo replicare solo con le nostre più vive proteste esprimendo un voto negativo . 
ITALIAN Relazione Karas ( A5 - 0170 / 2000 ) 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , sono anch ' io fra i deputati che hanno presentato l ' emendamento n . 7 in cui si chiede che la campagna della Commissione a favore dell ' euro si limiti ai soli paesi che partecipano alla valuta comune . 
ITALIAN Ciò implica che Svezia , Danimarca e Gran Bretagna dovrebbero essere mantenute al di fuori da tale campagna fintantoché la corona e la sterlina rimarranno le valute di questi paesi . 
ITALIAN Mi pare logico chiedere che l ' Unione non attui nei paesi membri campagne finanziate con fondi pubblici su temi tanto sensibili ai fini della politica interna . 
ITALIAN I socialdemocratici danesi oggi hanno votato a favore della relazione dell ' onorevole Karas sulla strategia di comunicazione per la realizzazione dell ' UEM . 
ITALIAN L ' introduzione delle nuove banconote e monete comuni avrà un impatto pratico di enorme portata sui cittadini e sulle aziende , non solo perché le monete e le banconote sono nuove , ma anche perché sarà necessario abituarsi ai " nuovi prezzi " , quando si farà la conversione nella moneta unica . 
ITALIAN Nel denaro occorre avere fiducia . 
ITALIAN E ' perciò importante che vi sia l ' informazione necessari. che dovrà essere naturalmente più ampia di quella alla quale si assiste oggi quando i paesi mettono in circolazione un nuovo design per le banconote e le monete . 
ITALIAN Siamo d ' accordo che è giusto che il governo danese non abbia concluso un accordo di questo tipo . 
ITALIAN Auspichiamo che anche la Danimarca lo possa fare quando la popolazione danese , come speriamo , avrà detto sì alla moneta unica in occasione del referendum del 28 settembre 2000 . 
ITALIAN Il mio partito , il Partito socialista dei Paesi Bassi , non è mai stato favorevole ad un ' introduzione precipitosa di una moneta comune nell ' Unione europea . 
ITALIAN L ' euro ci impedisce di regolare l ' economia mediante l ' adeguamento dei tassi d ' interesse e dei corsi di cambio . 
ITALIAN Inoltre la cosiddetta stabilità dell ' euro viene determinata dai grandi risparmi sui redditi di coloro che non lavorano e sui tagli all ' istruzione , alla sanità pubblica , all ' edilizia popolare e ai trasporti pubblici . 
ITALIAN Ritengo che l ' euro sia utile soltanto per gli uomini d ' affari , i ricchi vacanzieri e i deputati del Parlamento europeo , ma non per la grande maggioranza delle persone . 
ITALIAN La fiducia che c ' era nell ' euro è assai scemata ora che l ' euro ha perso valore nei confronti della corona danese , della corona svedese , della sterlina inglese e delle monete di molti altri paesi al di fuori dell ' Unione europea . 
ITALIAN Pertanto posso supporre che i fautori dell ' euro abbiano adesso bisogno di una campagna propagandistica . 
ITALIAN La relazione Karas è volta soprattutto a indurre maggiore fiducia nell ' opinione pubblica nei confronti dell ' euro , fra l ' altro coinvolgendo associazioni sportive e il mondo della scuola . 
ITALIAN Condivido questa parte del testo , ma non la proposta nel suo insieme . 
ITALIAN Se l ' obiettivo di far acquisire agli europei familiarità con la loro futura moneta è perfettamente legittimo in quanto la decisione di abbandonare le monete nazionali ormai è stata presa ( in condizioni , peraltro , che non condivido affatto ) , mi oppongo invece fermamente alla propaganda che la relazione Karas organizza a favore di quello che il collega chiama " un elemento essenziale del processo di integrazione europea , atto a favorire lo sviluppo di un ' identità comune " . 
ITALIAN Il testo dell ' onorevole Karas ha comunque il merito di portare alla luce l ' enorme menzogna a cui sono ricorsi , nel 1992, i sostenitori di un ' Europa federale quando chiesero ai francesi di ratificare il Trattato di Maastricht : la moneta unica veniva allora presentata come uno strumento meramente tecnico per far funzionare meglio l ' economia nei confronti del dollaro e dello yen , nonché come un ' operazione priva di qualsiasi effetto sulla sovranità nazionale . 
ITALIAN Come si era lontani , allora , dall ' attuale " elemento essenziale del processo di integrazione " ! 
ITALIAN E ' indubbio che la relazione Karas sarà un ' arma preziosa per tutti coloro che , in Gran Bretagna , in Svezia e in Danimarca , lottano per difendere le rispettive democrazie nazionali . 
ITALIAN Per quanto i sostenitori dell ' euro , in alcuni paesi , oggi lo neghino , la moneta unica è proprio la macchina da guerra di un ' Europa federale che la stragrande maggioranza dei popoli europei rifiuta . 
ITALIAN Quando i miei colleghi , quindi , respingono l ' emendamento presentato dall ' onorevole William Abitbol che chiede semplicemente che i programmi di comunicazione della Commissione dichiarino apertamente tale obiettivo di integrazione , non fanno altro che contribuire ad alimentare una campagna di menzogne che gli elettori sicuramente faranno loro pagare . 
ITALIAN La risoluzione della relazione Karas sostiene che le donne , per inspiegabili motivi , non partecipano dell ' entusiasmo generale che avrebbe dovuto accompagnare l ' istituzione dell ' euro . 
ITALIAN Vi si ritrovano pure i toni sgradevoli dei propagandisti rivoluzionari di ogni epoca , che in ogni famiglia vedevano un complotto reazionario di preti e donne che rifiutavano un futuro radioso . 
ITALIAN A nessuno sembra essere venuto in mente , invece , che forse è proprio per la loro esperienza di economia domestica quotidiana che le donne nutrono forti riserve sul passaggio alla moneta unica . 
ITALIAN Un atteggiamento davvero spregevole , che coincide peraltro con la dittatura di quel pensiero uniformante che consiste nel tacciare di ignoranti , analfabeti e sottosviluppati gli oppositori o i riluttanti , donne o uomini che siano . 
ITALIAN Ecco a cosa porta un federalismo cieco ! 
ITALIAN Relazione Lambert ( A5 - 0162 / 2000 ) 
ITALIAN Le relazioni annuali presentate ogni anno dal mediatore europeo e dalla commissione per le petizioni sulle attività da loro svolte fanno parte delle nostre tradizioni . 
ITALIAN Ai consuntivi di questi due organi , il Parlamento risponde a sua volta con due relazioni abbastanza simili da un anno all ' altro . 
ITALIAN Tuttavia , vi è una novità : la relazione Thors , basata sostanzialmente sui lavori della commissione per gli affari istituzionali e sulla richiesta del Mediatore Söderman , pretende di assegnare alla figura del Mediatore un diritto di accesso generalizzato a tutti i documenti la cui consultazione è necessaria per l ' istruzione dei ricorsi . 
ITALIAN Ci opponiamo a questa proposta non perché siamo contrari a priori ad un controllo sull ' operato dell ' amministrazione , ma perché simili poteri vanno ben oltre le competenze di un mediatore e si avvicinano piuttosto a quelle di un giudice . 
ITALIAN E ' ovvi. e non saremo di certo noi ad affermare il contrari. che la delirante amministrazione comunitaria e i danni che ne derivano possono soltanto alimentare nei nostri concittadini una sempre maggiore insoddisfazione e , di conseguenza , un crescente numero di ricorsi . 
ITALIAN Ma il potenziamento delle competenze , la diversificazione dei campi di intervento e la bulimia legislativa della Commissione e della nostra Assemblea non risolveranno probabilmente il problema . 
ITALIAN Ma nemmeno il Mediatore , assieme ai suoi collaboratori , potrà rispondere adeguatamente a tali richieste . 
ITALIAN Abbiamo la responsabilità politica di esaurire le fonti stesse di una tale litigiosità anteponendo la qualità del lavoro pratico all ' attivismo testuale , che ci serve talvolta per giustificare la nostra esistenza , e rispettando davvero il principio di sussidiarietà , che eviterà all ' Unione di doversi pronunciare su questioni che non la riguardano . Dovremo esercitare invece noi stessi , se occorre , le competenze di cui disponiamo in materia di controllo degli organi comunitari . 
ITALIAN Troppo spesso abbiamo visto la nostra Assemblea nascondersi dietro a comitati di esperti soltanto perché si rifiutava di assumersi le proprie responsabilità politiche . 
ITALIAN Se è necessario lasciare al Mediatore il controllo dei problemi di pura operatività amministrativa , noi dobbiamo , da parte nostra , imparare a tenere costantemente a freno la macchina comunitaria lanciata a folle velocità in una corsa mortale . 
ITALIAN Gli eccessi contro cui lottare derivano spesso dalla natura stessa dell ' attuale costruzione comunitaria e vanno quindi affrontati alla radice . 
ITALIAN Relazione Atkins ( A5 - 0162 / 2000 ) 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , non dica all ' onorevole Peijs che non le vengo incontro . 
ITALIAN Ho infatti votato a favore della relazione Atkins perché per i pensionati , che hanno poco da vivere , la puntualità di arrivare a destinazione quando prendono l ' aereo è importantissima , avendo , appunto , poco tempo a disposizione . 
ITALIAN Peccato , però , dover constatare che il settore viene analizzato unicamente nell ' ottica della liberalizzazione . 
ITALIAN La relazione dell ' onorevole Atkins , che tratta della proposta della Commissione europea di creare un cielo unico europeo , rientra in questa logica di liberalizzazione a tutto spiano . 
ITALIAN Da qui lo sciopero , la settimana scorsa , dei controllori di volo francesi , che hanno così espresso le loro preoccupazioni per una concezione meramente commerciale della loro professione . 
ITALIAN Comprendo la loro protesta , contrariamente all ' onorevole Atkins , il quale , nella sua relazione , " invita la Commissione ad esortare i governi degli Stati membri che tollerano oggi che il traffico aereo venga perturbato da vertenze sindacali nazionali ad affrontare urgentemente il problema " . 
ITALIAN E ' semplicemente ridicolo ! 
ITALIAN Nessuno nega che la situazione del traffico aereo sia peggiorata . 
ITALIAN I corridoi aerei e gli aeroporti , in effetti , sono saturi ; i ritardi sono ormai all ' ordine del giorno ( un aereo su tre non atterra in orario ) , e al tutto si aggiungono l ' inquinamento acustico e quello ambientale . 
ITALIAN Plaudo quindi alla disponibilità del Commissario incaricato del dossier trasporti , signora De Palacio , di afferrare il toro per le corna al fine di giungere rapidamente alla creazione di un cielo unico europeo . 
ITALIAN Non sono tuttavia per nulla d ' accordo sui mezzi che il Commissario ci propone , così come disapprovo le proposte contenute nella relazione . 
ITALIAN Si tratterebbe , infatti , di mettere in concorrenza i centri di controllo aereo , separando le autorità di controllo del traffico da quelle di fornitura dei servizi . 
ITALIAN La funzione di controllo potrebbe essere esercitata da imprese indipendenti , il cui capitale sarebbe aperto alle compagnie aeree oppure ai partner privati . 
ITALIAN Una tale liberalizzazione diminuirebbe la sicurezza del trasporto aereo , il che sarebbe inaccettabile ed incoerente con il Trattato dell ' Unione , secondo il quale il miglioramento della sicurezza dei trasporti è uno dei principali obiettivi della politica comune dei trasporti . 
ITALIAN La Francia , certo , è un caso a se stante rispetto alla maggioranza degli altri paesi europei , dove il controllo aereo è gestito da agenzie poste sotto la tutela dello Stato ma aperte ai capitali privati . 
ITALIAN La Francia d ' altronde ci tiene a preservare la natura pubblica di tale attività . 
ITALIAN Ma è necessario applicare il principio di sussidiarietà e lasciare ad ogni Stato membro la facoltà di organizzare il proprio controllo aereo . 
ITALIAN E ' indispensabile , tanto più che i ritardi non sono imputabili al controllo , se non nel 25 percento dei casi a malapena ! 
ITALIAN La relazione sbaglia nel sottovalutare il potenziale di quest ' agenzia . Comunque , voto contro una relazione assolutamente inaccettabile . 
ITALIAN Ho votato contro la relazione dell ' onorevole Atkins in quanto la ritengo completamente avulsa dalla realtà e dettata più da una visione ideologica aprioristica che non dalla preoccupazione di rispondere alle reali esigenze dei cittadini europei e degli utenti del trasporto aereo . 
ITALIAN Con ciò non intendo negare di certo la necessità di migliorare la regolazione e il controllo del traffico aereo in Europa , nell ' ottica di un cielo unico europeo . 
ITALIAN Ed è vero che , se sono stati realizzati progressi attraverso Eurocontrol , è giunto il momento di andare oltre e di migliorare il dispositivo , con un imperativo assolutamente prioritario : la sicurezza , la regolazione e il controllo del traffico aereo non devono dipendere dalla legge della concorrenza , bensì dal concetto di servizio di interesse generale . 
ITALIAN D ' altronde , nemmeno gli Stati Uniti hanno liberalizzato il controllo del traffico aereo , la cui gestione è affidata ad un ' agenzia statale . 
ITALIAN Il che è tutto dire ! 
ITALIAN Ebbene , la relazione Atkins persegue l ' obiettivo di mettere in concorrenza un servizio che non si vede come potrebbe essere fonte di profitto per i privati , secondo criteri di efficienza connessi agli utili realizzati . 
ITALIAN D ' altra parte , il pretesto che si adduce a favore della liberalizzazione è il ritardo degli aerei . 
ITALIAN Ricordiamo innanzi tutto che quest ' anno la situazione talvolta è migliorata in quanto i ritardi , ad esempio in Francia , sono notevolmente diminuiti . 
ITALIAN Ne consegue che è bene comunque distinguere le disfunzioni congiunturali ( utilizzo dello spazio da parte dei militari per il Kosovo , cambiamento del sistema di controllo , ecc ) . 
ITALIAN da quelle strutturali . 
ITALIAN Bisogna anche valutare la questione delle compagnie aeree o quella della ristrettezza dello spazio civile europeo rispetto al numero di sorvoli . 
ITALIAN La colpa dei ritardi , in fondo , non è tutta del controllo aereo e , comunque , migliorare il sistema vuole dire coordinare meglio i vari sistemi di controllo negli Stati membri , rafforzando il ruolo di Eurocontrol . 
ITALIAN Dovrebbero essere questi l ' obiettivo e gli orientamenti del cielo unico europeo . 
ITALIAN Pare però , purtroppo , che la Commissione non sia di quest ' idea , e la relazione Atkins ancora meno . 
ITALIAN Pertanto in questo settore è da lungo tempo abituale che diverse compagnie si facciano la concorrenza sulle medesime rotte . 
ITALIAN Anche i prezzi dei biglietti aerei sono una dimostrazione di questa libertà : non esiste infatti alcun rapporto tra distanza da percorrere e prezzo del volo . 
ITALIAN Dove si vogliono più passeggeri , i prezzi sono bassi ; dove invece si ritiene che ci siano già passeggeri a sufficienza , i prezzi sono alti . 
ITALIAN In questo settore non resta molto da liberalizzare . 
ITALIAN Tuttavia ci sono persone che si aspettano da un ' ulteriore liberalizzazione la panacea a tutti i mali . 
ITALIAN Essa porterebbe ad un abbassamento del costo dei biglietti , ad un aumento dell ' offerta di voli e alla scomparsa dei ritardi . 
ITALIAN Il gruppo GUE ritiene tale valutazione unilaterale , in quanto si limita a considerare solo due interessi : da un lato quelli delle compagnie aeree , dall ' altro quelli dei consumatori , che mirano soltanto a volare a costi sempre più ridotti . 
ITALIAN A nostro giudizio ci sono altri aspetti che sono più importanti , come la sicurezza dei passeggeri , le garanzie occupazionali e la situazione lavorativa del personale , la tutela dell ' ambiente e delle ferrovie dal dumping dei prezzi e da altre forme di concorrenza sleale . 
ITALIAN Non ha senso addossare tutte le colpe per i disagi di cui possono soffrire i passeggeri al personale , che a volte è costretto a scioperare per autodifesa . 
ITALIAN Non è neppure colpa di Eurocontrol , che si è assunto una serie di funzioni statali transfrontaliere . 
ITALIAN La sicurezza non dev ' essere subordinata alle mire di profitto di imprese che intendono rilevare il mercato di Eurocontrol . 
ITALIAN Il problema è legato invece alla crescita spropositata del trasporto aereo e alla concorrenza a livello di prezzi , che sono andate a scapito del trasporto ferroviario a lungo raggio . 
ITALIAN Tale problema non verrà risolto con le proposte odierne . 
ITALIAN Partendo da questa visione critica abbiamo presentato undici emendamenti . 
ITALIAN La presente relazione , sebbene parta da alcune situazioni real. come l ' aumento del traffico aereo o i ritardi che si verificano su diverse rott. e da alcune premesse corrett. segnatamente la necessità di garantire e rafforzare la sicurezza del trasporto aere. rivela , tuttavia , le cause profonde di tali situazioni , indivisibili dalle continue liberalizzazioni delle linee aeree e dalla conseguente concorrenza sfrenata . 
ITALIAN In particolare , la relazione trae conclusioni precipitose ed errate , in quanto chiaramente a favore della liberalizzazione dello spazio aereo e del controllo futuro da parte delle principali linee aeree . 
ITALIAN Poiché è evidente che in questo settore si impone una cooperazione effettiva e che sono indispensabili misure tecniche e disciplinari , non intendiamo sostenere tali orientamenti , ancora più liberali di quelli suggeriti dalla Commissione . 
ITALIAN Se attuati , questi orientamenti non farebbero altro che accentuare le difficoltà nel campo della sicurezza e farebbero emergere ulteriori problemi sociali , oltre a suscitare problemi relativi alla sovranità di ogni Stato sul proprio spazio aereo , tanto più rilevanti nella misura in cui esso è condiviso dalle rispettive aviazioni militari . 
ITALIAN Il 26 giugno 2000 gli addetti al controllo aereo francesi scioperavano per protestare contro i progetti dell ' Unione europea di liberalizzare il controllo aereo : ci tengo a dichiarare loro la mia solidarietà e il mio rispetto per le rivendicazioni dei sindacati di categoria . 
ITALIAN Le risposte alla congestione dello spazio aereo europeo inducono un precipitare degli eventi , con il proliferare degli aeroporti e delle piste di decollo e atterraggio , il degrado delle condizioni di lavoro dei dipendenti del settore e l ' aumento dell ' inquinamento . 
ITALIAN La liberalizzazione del controllo aereo non risolverà il problema dei ritardi giacché questi dipendono dal controllo del traffico aereo soltanto per il 20 - 30 percento . 
ITALIAN Si sa che i servizi militari dispongono oggi , in Francia ad esempio , dell ' 80 percento dello spazio aereo . 
ITALIAN Come mai questo non viene rimesso in discussione ? 
ITALIAN La Commissione fa leva sui ritardi per proporre la separazione tra un ' agenzia europea di regolazione e l ' istituzione di un mercato interno liberalizzato di prestazione di servizi di traffico aereo . 
ITALIAN Misure di questo tipo , decise per la pressione esercitata dalle compagnie aeree , potranno solo andare a scapito della sicurezza , tanto più che le compagnie stesse potranno candidarsi per la fornitura di tali servizi . 
ITALIAN Per questi motivi voto contro la presente relazione . 
ITALIAN Ho votato a favore della relazione Damião , signor Presidente , anche perché ho votato a favore dell ' emendamento che prevede il 100 percento dell ' indennità di maternità . 
ITALIAN Stamattina sui giornali , in Italia , c ' è scritto che ci toglieranno dalle tasse le cure per i cani e per i gatti . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , la presente relazione concernente l ' attuazione di misure volte a promuovere il miglioramento della sicurezza e della salute sul lavoro delle lavoratrici gestanti , puerpere o in periodo di allattamento è certo lodevole e incamminata nella giusta direzione . 
ITALIAN Non da ultimo , il paragrafo 11 contiene molte proposte positive . 
ITALIAN Nel contempo , mi preme mettere in guardia contro la tendenza a far sì che il Parlamento si occupi di politica e legislazione sociale , materie a mio avviso di competenza degli Stati membri in ogni loro aspetto . 
ITALIAN Si tratta di un elemento importante dell ' identità culturale e sociale di ogni paese e di ogni popolo . 
ITALIAN E si tratta anche di uno degli aspetti più importanti in ogni campagna elettorale , in Svezia come in altri paesi . 
ITALIAN Lasciamo che resti una competenza nazionale . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , la lavoratrice gestante e il bimbo che deve ancora nascere , ma lo stesso vale per le lavoratrici puerpere o in periodo di allattamento , hanno bisogno del maggior sostegno possibile in una fase della loro vita importante non solo per loro stesse e per il bambino ma per la società tutta , considerando il basso tasso di natalità e l ' invecchiamento della popolazione attualmente presenti in Europa . 
ITALIAN Se è pur vero che le aziende hanno un ruolo di responsabilità sociale , i governi dovrebbero essere certamente di esempio , specie in quei paesi , come il mio , in cui il ruolo della madre e della famiglia è tutelato dalla Costituzione . 
ITALIAN Purtroppo non è questo il caso dell ' Irlanda quanto a indennità per congedo di maternità , agevolazioni per le necessità connesse all ' allattamento e esonero dai turni notturni . 
ITALIAN Ho citato questi esempi per segnalare che la semplice approvazione di una direttiva non significa automaticamente la sua attuazione . 
ITALIAN Non è davvero più tollerabile che nella Comunità europea ci si limiti a parlare senza poi agire a favore delle madri lavoratrici , dei loro figli e delle famiglie a cui appartengono . 
ITALIAN E ' deplorevole , tuttavia , che la relazione non proponga nemmeno di allineare , in tutti i paesi , vantaggi e diritti a quelli più favorevoli riconosciuti in alcuni paesi alle donne gestanti che lavorano . 
ITALIAN D ' altra parte non vogliamo che il nostro voto a favore di una tutela specifica , durante la gravidanza , delle donne che lavorano di notte possa essere interpretato come il riconoscimento della legittimità del lavoro notturno femminile . 
ITALIAN Anzi , vogliamo ribadire qui la nostra opposizione al lavoro notturno , quando non socialmente utile , non solo delle donne ma anche degli uomini . 
ITALIAN Tirare in ballo la parità dei sessi , poi , sarebbe soltanto ipocrisia . 
ITALIAN . ( EN ) Mi sono astenuto sull ' emendamento n . 2 presentato a firma dell ' onorevole Bushill - Matthews con il quale si chiedeva il riconoscimento di particolari necessità delle PMI in fase di attuazione delle norme sulla salute e la sicurezza . 
ITALIAN Ho la massima considerazione per tale richiesta , ma l ' emendamento è superfluo , dato che l ' articolo 137 ( 2 ) del Trattato afferma chiaramente che " le direttive in materia sociale evitano di imporre vincoli amministrativi , finanziari e giuridici di natura tale da ostacolare la creazione e lo sviluppo di piccole e medie imprese " . 
ITALIAN Credo , quindi , che l ' auspicio espresso nell ' emendamento sia già soddisfatto e che non sia necessario formularlo nuovamente nella relazione in esame . 
ITALIAN Ci troviamo di nuovo di fronte ad una raffica di buone intenzioni che , anche qualora si traducano in una serie di proposte positive , sono condannate a restare lettera morta poiché evitano di affrontare l ' essenza del problema o l ' orientamento principale che lo determina . 
ITALIAN La proposta del Parlamento europeo contiene molti spunti positivi , che però vengono annullati dalla sua stessa pecca di voler affrontare in modo globale il problema dell ' impatto negativo sul lavoro e sulle relazioni industriali , in quanto non mette in discussione l ' orientamento fondamentale costituito dalla riorganizzazione delle relazioni industriali e dall ' annullamento dei diritti e delle conquiste dei lavoratori . Il quadro che ne emerg. flessibilità dell ' orario e delle condizioni di lavoro , occupazione temporanea e a tempo parziale , tagli alla previdenza e alla protezione social. è assolutamente negativo e ostacola l ' attuazione di qualsiasi politica di tutela delle donne lavoratrici durante e dopo la gravidanza . 
ITALIAN Vorremmo richiamare l ' attenzione sui rischi inerenti al divieto assoluto di licenziare , specie nell ' attuale e diffuso sistema di estensione dei contratti di lavoro atipici , sull ' esclusione indiretta dalla procedura di assunzione delle gestanti , sull ' esigenza non solo di mantenere e tutelare ma , anzi , di estendere il congedo di maternità , sull ' esistenza di una definizione chiara del congedo retribuito , sull ' esecuzione di controlli più rigorosi e sostanziali sul lavoro notturno delle lavoratrici gestanti e puerpere . 
ITALIAN Nel contempo , con il rafforzamento del quadro giuridico di tutela relativo alla sicurezza e alla salute delle gestanti , volto a colmare le lacune e a far luce sui lati oscuri , che potrebbero diventare eventuali scappatoie , si deve fronteggiare la mancanza di volontà politica da parte degli Stati membri di attuare tale tutela , mancanza facilmente dimostrabile con l ' atteggiamento assunto dagli organismi di controllo degli Stati membri nel periodo precedente . 
ITALIAN E ' indicativo l ' esempio della Grecia e dei suoi controlli lacunosi sull ' obbligo per i datori di lavoro di elaborare per iscritto una valutazione completa dei rischi professionali sul posto di lavoro , in cui deve rientrare anche un ' analisi specifica dei pericoli per le lavoratrici gestanti e puerpere . 
ITALIAN La realtà dimostra che , quando la capacità di occupazione e l ' " adattabilità " diventano le linee guida delle priorità comunitarie in materia d ' occupazione , la protezione si rivela inesistente e le singole norme vengono in pratica cancellate . 
ITALIAN Resta da vedere quali siano gli orientamenti prescelti e che tipo di politica per l ' occupazione si preferisca seguire . 
ITALIAN Non ci si può illudere nemmeno sulla natura della politica per l ' occupazione e , più in generale , della politica sociale dell ' UE , né tanto meno sugli interessi che essa predilige . Per tali motivi , pur condividendo la posizione positiva del Parlamento in materia di tutela delle lavoratrici gestanti , riteniamo che si tratti semplicemente dell ' ennesima espressione di buone intenzioni . 
ITALIAN Invitiamo pertanto le lavoratrici e i lavoratori a proseguire la lotta sociale per una modifica globale della politica attuata , promuovendone una diversa che abbia come fulcro l ' uomo e il rispetto dei suoi bisogni e della sua dignità . 
ITALIAN Lo scopo primario di questa lotta è la realizzazione del principio dell ' occupazione piena e stabile , con diritti sociali totali per tutti . 
ITALIAN Siamo favorevoli a qualsiasi modifica della direttiva che punti a una maggiore tutela delle lavoratrici gestanti prima , durante e dopo il congedo di maternità . 
ITALIAN La risoluzione propone di colmare le lacune dell ' attuale direttiva e di armonizzare le legislazioni europee per allinearle a quelle che garantiscono il maggior numero di diritti . 
ITALIAN Sottoscriviamo tali proposte in nome della garanzia del diritto alla salute dei lavoratori subordinati . Tanto più che i progetti di modifica della Convenzione dell ' Organizzazione internazionale del lavoro sulla protezione della maternità ( Convenzione 103 ) ci fanno temere un ' involuzione , con l ' esclusione di alcune donne dal beneficio del congedo di maternità , la durata minima dello stesso e la possibilità di licenziare una lavoratrice durante la gravidanza . 
ITALIAN E ' necessario predisporre un rigoroso quadro europeo che tuteli le donne gestanti da qualsiasi forma di discriminazione nella procedura di assunzione , relativamente alle condizioni di lavoro , all ' accesso e alla durata del congedo di maternità : venti settimane , di cui otto obbligatorie dopo il parto . 
ITALIAN Esse devono essere protette da qualsiasi licenziamento abusivo e deve essere loro garantito il livello salariale antecedente la gravidanza . 
ITALIAN Infine , il lavoro notturno di donne e uomini deve essere vietato nei settori in cui non è strettamente indispensabile , anziché essere riorganizzato per le donne gestanti . 
ITALIAN Sviluppo del traffico marittimo a corto raggio 
ITALIAN L ' ordine del giorno reca la relazione ( A5 - 0139 / 2000 ) , presentata dalla onorevole Peijs a nome della commissione per la politica regionale , i trasporti e il turismo , su una comunicazione della Commissione al Consiglio , al Parlamento europeo , al Comitato economico e sociale e al Comitato delle regioni sullo sviluppo del trasporto marittimo a corto raggio in Europa : un ' alternativa dinamica in una catena di trasporto sostenibile . 
ITALIAN Seconda relazione biennale di avanzamento . 
ITALIAN La parola alla relatrice , onorevole Peijs . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , nel 1995 la Commissione presentò , sulla base della strategia formulata nel Libro bianco sulla politica comune dei trasporti , la comunicazione sullo sviluppo del trasporto marittimo a corto raggio . 
ITALIAN Adesso disponiamo della seconda relazione annuale di avanzamento al riguardo . 
ITALIAN Tuttavia , dopo cinque anni è evidente che il trasporto marittimo a corto raggio è rimasto una bella promessa che non è stata mantenuta , malgrado il sostegno verbale espresso in occasione del Consiglio " trasporti " dell ' 8 dicembre 1999, che individuava in tale settore una priorità . 
ITALIAN Non è per idealismo che cerchiamo di esaltare il trasporto marittimo a corto raggio come il trasporto marittimo per eccellenza . 
ITALIAN E ' impossibile rispondere alla crescente domanda soltanto con il trasporto su strada . 
ITALIAN Il trasporto marittimo a corto raggio non rappresenta un concorrente del trasporto su strada , su rotaia o fluviale , bensì è una delle modalità della catena di trasporto . 
ITALIAN Tutti abbiamo interesse a mantenere entro limiti il più possibile ristretti l ' insofferenza della gente a causa della contiguità tra le abitazioni e le arterie dove scorre il traffico pesante . 
ITALIAN La velocità non rappresenta forse la caratteristica principale di questo settore , ma la sicurezza sì . 
ITALIAN Divieti di circolazione durante il fine - settimana e ingorghi del traffico mettono a dura prova il trasporto su strada . 
ITALIAN In molti casi il trasporto marittimo a corto raggio può risolvere tali problemi se utilizzato ad integrazione di altre forme di trasporto . 
ITALIAN Non intendo comunque sostenere che esso rappresenti sempre una soluzione a tutti i problemi . 
ITALIAN Elimineremo molti problemi già se ci impegneremo a sfruttare e a combinare al meglio le modalità di trasporto esistenti , ma a tale scopo bisogna rispettare determinate condizioni . 
ITALIAN Nella sua comunicazione , la Commissione fa un esplicito riferimento alle imprese . 
ITALIAN Ciò è senza dubbio possibile , ma , in qualità di relatrice , desidero rimettere un po ' in equilibrio le cose . 
ITALIAN Su alcuni punti sono chiaramente soprattutto le autorit. nazionali , locali e regional. a poter far sentire il loro peso e imprimere un impulso al trasporto marittimo a corto raggio . 
ITALIAN La Commissione ha cercato , nella comunicazione , di valutare sistematicamente il problema . 
ITALIAN Il Parlamento e la relatrice hanno analizzato con occhio critico i progetti della Commissione e hanno elaborato la relazione qui in esame nell ' ambito di un dialogo con tutte le parti interessate , così come si addice al Parlamento . 
ITALIAN E ' stato chiesto alle imprese di far presenti quegli elementi pratici che , a loro giudizio , ostacolano lo sviluppo del trasporto marittimo a corto raggio ; siamo tuttora in attesa della relazione . 
ITALIAN Desidero sottolineare alcuni aspetti . 
ITALIAN Ribadisco che questo settore può avere successo in Europa soltanto se verrà considerato una parte integrante della catena di trasporto . 
ITALIAN Pertanto occorre assicurare l ' integrazione con le altre modalità di trasporto , e ciò pone delle esigenze a livello di infrastrutture . 
ITALIAN Il trasporto marittimo a corto raggio è anche particolarmente adatto per il trasporto specializzato : mi riferisco ad esempio alle automobili . 
ITALIAN In questo ambito riveste enorme importanza l ' innovazione nella costruzione di navi specializzate , che può inoltre dare impulso alla cantieristica . 
ITALIAN Grande rilevanza assume anche l ' immagine di questo tipo di trasporto , che dev ' essere migliorata . 
ITALIAN Il settore del trasporto marittimo a corto raggio soffre sotto il peso della burocrazia . 
ITALIAN Le procedure si protraggono all ' infinito . 
ITALIAN Tuttavia , un po ' alla volta si stanno anche evidenziando gli aspetti positivi . 
ITALIAN E ' qui che le imprese devono assumersi le loro responsabilità , ad esempio istituendo uffici regionali di promozione e di marketing . Il mercato , però , non può farcela da solo . 
ITALIAN Gli Stati membri devono eliminare gli ostacoli . 
ITALIAN Mi riferisco , ad esempio , al monopolio del trasporto su strada , con tutte le relative conseguenze per i prezzi a cui si deve adeguare il trasporto marittimo a corto raggio nello short sea port di Bilbao . 
ITALIAN Dappertutto sono previste per l ' accompagnamento del carico procedure burocratiche spropositate e un ' infinita serie di formalità amministrative . 
ITALIAN Ciò danneggia il trasporto marittimo a corto raggio rispetto ad altre forme di trasporto . 
ITALIAN Il Parlamento chiede di adottare un approccio flessibile nei confronti del settore , in modo che esso possa conquistare una posizione migliore per quanto concerne i prezzi . 
ITALIAN Ci riferiamo , per esempio , ad un ' esenzione dai servizi di pilotaggio per quei porti in cui il comandante ha evidentemente acquisito notevole esperienza . 
ITALIAN Peraltro , su questo punto si è incappati in un errore particolarmente spiacevole . 
ITALIAN Nel documento si parla di esperienza dei piloti ; è ovvio che si deve parlare del comandante , perché in caso contrario sarebbe un ' assurdità . 
ITALIAN Pertanto , nella sua relazione il Parlamento richiama l ' attenzione sull ' esigenza di un approccio del tipo one stop shop a livello di offerta di servizi logistici agli utenti finali , che devono comprendere tutti i servizi di trasporto multimodale , ponendo così fine all ' attuale frammentazione dei servizi . 
ITALIAN Nella relazione esorto inoltre la Commissione a varare misure d ' incentivazione ; occorrono infatti degli stimoli per incoraggiare il trasporto marittimo a corto raggio . 
ITALIAN In riferimento ai collegamenti europei chiedo poi progetti d ' investimento in particolare per il bacino del Mediterraneo e per i porti che si affacciano sull ' Adriatico . 
ITALIAN A Rotterdam si possono avere splendidi short sea terminal , ma ci vogliono anche delle mete . 
ITALIAN Nella messa a punto di nuove linee è necessaria la massa critica e possono essere necessari uno o due anni prima di raggiungerla . 
ITALIAN Mancano inoltre dati e statistiche sui quali le imprese possano basarsi per i loro investimenti . 
ITALIAN Nessuno sa che cosa trasportiamo , come , verso quali destinazioni e in che quantità . 
ITALIAN Penso che le statistiche su ciò che trasportiamo e verso quali destinazioni rappresentino uno degli elementi di cui abbiamo urgente bisogno per poter portare avanti una politica per il settore dei trasporti che nei prossimi anni registrerà un aumento tanto rilevante . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , a nome dei colleghi Ripoll e Pérez Álvarez che hanno lavorato su questa relazion. ma che hanno dovuto assentarsi - , desidero congratularmi con la relatrice , onorevole Peijs , per l ' eccellente relazione presentata , soprattutto perché affronta un importante problema da un punto di vista estremamente reale e pratico . 
ITALIAN Vorrei inoltre esprimere il mio rammarico per due circostanze : la prima , che non sia possibile conoscere l ' opinione del nostro amico Fatuzzo riguardo agli effetti del trasporto marittimo a corto raggio sugli interessi dei pensionati europei ; e , in secondo luogo , che siano così pochi i colleghi deputati presenti , dato che , pensando agli egoistici interessi di quest ' Assemblea , è probabile che un giorno rimpiangano di avere trascurato il trasporto marittimo a corto raggio , poiché forse uno di questi giorni dovremo utilizzarlo per poter andare e venire da Strasburgo . 
ITALIAN Entrando nel merito della questione , bisogna dire alla onorevole Peijs che abbiamo seguito con grande interesse gli sviluppi e le azioni che negli ultimi anni , e particolarmente in seguito alla costituzione del Forum delle industrie marittime , sono stati realizzati nell ' Unione europea per promuovere il trasporto marittimo a corto raggio come alternativa al trasporto terrestre . 
ITALIAN Sia la relazione della Commissione che quella della relatrice mettono in evidenza vantaggi di tipo diverso nella comparazione fra i due tipi di trasporto . Riguardo al trasporto marittimo , sottolineerei la minore saturazione delle infrastrutture , il costo inferiore delle stesse , il minor consumo energetic. con la conseguente minore emissione di sostanze inquinanti nell ' atmosfer. ed il miglioramento delle comunicazioni con le regioni periferiche dell ' Unione europea . 
ITALIAN Riteniam. e credo che su questo siamo tutti d ' accord. che il trasferimento di traffico dalla modalità terrestre a quella marittima dovrebbe diventare un obiettivo prioritario delle politiche di trasporto dell ' Unione europea . 
ITALIAN Vorrei evidenziare il fatto che negli ultimi anni sono state prese numerose iniziative che hanno avuto effetti positivi per il trasporto marittimo a corto raggio . 
ITALIAN Ciò ha reso possibile , come segnala la relazione della Commissione , un aumento dell ' attività del trasporto marittimo intracomunitario del 23 percento tra il 1990 e il 1997 . 
ITALIAN Si tratta tuttavia di un aumento oggettivamente modest. soltanto il 3 percento annuo accumulat. ed inferiore a quello registrato nello stesso periodo dalla modalità terrestre , pari al 26 percento . 
ITALIAN Di conseguenza , invece di un avvicinamento delle posizioni relative fra trasporto marittimo e stradale , si è verificato un ulteriore aumento del differenziale . 
ITALIAN Tutto pertanto indica che non soltanto sono necessarie misure quantitativamente più energiche , ma che c ' è probabilmente bisogno di un approccio qualitativamente diverso . 
ITALIAN La relazione della onorevole Peijs ci sembra molto equilibrata , ma vorremmo richiamare l ' attenzione su uno degli obiettivi chiave per la promozione del trasporto marittimo a corto raggio : la contemporanea riduzione dei tempi e dei costi diretti relativi alle operazioni portuali delle imbarcazioni che effettuano questo genere di servizi . 
ITALIAN I servizi portual. sia per le navi che per le merc. vengono spesso prestati senza un ' effettiva concorrenza o con una concorrenza molto limitata . Ne consegue che si verifichino frequentemente abusi di posizione dominante , come l ' imposizione di servizi obbligatori che non sono necessari e che non vengono nemmeno utilizzat. per esempio il pilotaggio , il rimorchio , l ' ormeggio o la movimentazione portual. o come il pagamento di tariffe molto elevate . 
ITALIAN Pensiamo quindi che , se si vuole promuovere il trasporto marittimo a corto raggio in modo realistico ed efficace , è indispensabile rivedere il modo in cui vengono attualmente prestati i servizi portuali , migliorandone l ' efficienza e riducendone i costi . 
ITALIAN Bisogna altresì considerare le conseguenze per l ' economia delle zone in cui è presente l ' industria navale , dato che tutto ciò costituirebbe una forma di rilancio per queste aree , come ben sa chi vive in quelle città e in quelle regioni in cui l ' industria navale rappresenta un elemento attivo dell ' economia locale . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , signor Commissario , onorevoli colleghi , mi è stato chiesto perché ci impegniamo così tanto a livello europeo per il trasporto marittimo a corto raggio . 
ITALIAN Navi sicure ed ecologiche trasportano attorno al nostro continente grandi quantitativi di merci . 
ITALIAN Le merci vengono scaricate dove sono più vicine via terra alla loro destinazione finale . 
ITALIAN Si alleggeriscono così i trasporti via terra perché si completa un altro anello della catena di trasporto intermodale . 
ITALIAN Siamo lontani mille miglia da questa realtà , è vero , anche se negli ultimi tempi è stato fatto qualcosa , come si desume dalla relazione . 
ITALIAN L ' ottima relazione della onorevole Pejjs affronta le attuali difficoltà e le strategie attuate per realizzare il nostro obiettivo . 
ITALIAN Si è giunti ad un ampio consenso in seno alla commissione . 
ITALIAN Che cosa possiamo fare internamente a favore del trasporto marittimo a corto raggio ? 
ITALIAN Dal punto di vista organizzativo i temi da affrontare riguardano in particolare i traffici transfrontalieri , la standardizzazione dei documenti di trasporto , la semplificazione dei procedimenti amministrativi e un minor ricorso ai servizi di pilotaggio , qualora essi non risultino assolutamente indispensabili . 
ITALIAN Cosa possiamo fare per il trasporto marittimo a corto raggio quale anello della catena intermodale ? 
ITALIAN Innanzitutto migliorare le interfacce con altri mezzi di trasporto mediante attrezzature moderne per il trasbordo delle merc. in particolare per quanto riguarda il trasporto fluviale - , unificare i container , favorire i servizi di logistica dei trasporti per la catena di trasporto nel suo complesso e adottare molte altre misure previste nella relazione . 
ITALIAN Ritengo che tali riflessioni dovrebbero tener conto anche della strategia di preadesione . 
ITALIAN Nella relazione si auspica l ' utilizzo di metodi di best practice . 
ITALIAN La relazione offre nel suo complesso un pacchetto di proposte sensate e mi auguro che tra due anni , quando ci sarà la prossima relazione , ci saremo avvicinati un po ' di più al nostro obiettivo , ad un funzionante sistema di trasporto intermodale in Europa . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , ci sono tre aspetti dell ' ottima relazione della onorevole Peijs che desidero sottolineare e illustrare per mezzo di un esempio , il quale , pur riferendosi al mio collegio elettorale , so essere rappresentativo della situazione di molte regioni simili a quella da cui provengo . 
ITALIAN Questa settimana abbiamo approvato alcune misure finalizzate al rispetto dell ' ambiente con le quali si intende promuovere un maggiore utilizzo del trasporto di merci su rotaia . 
ITALIAN In tale contesto , è essenziale che l ' accesso ferroviario ai porti sia di ottima qualità . 
ITALIAN Voglio citare , a questo riguardo , l ' inclusione nel piano delle reti transeuropee dell ' autostrada A75 che da Gretna porta a Stranraer , in considerazione della sua importanza per il trasporto marittimo da e verso l ' Irlanda del nord . 
ITALIAN In secondo luogo , si deve considerare in quale misura le regioni e le isole periferiche dipendano dai trasporti marittimi per le relazioni con le regioni vicine . 
ITALIAN Spesso pensiamo al mare come a un fattore di separazione tra le diverse comunità , quando dovremmo invece considerarlo una sorta di collegamento autostradale . 
ITALIAN Per questo motivo , il mio gruppo accoglie con favore gli emendamenti nn . 
ITALIAN Nella zona occidentale della Scozia , la distanza via mare tra Gourock e Dunoon è inferiore di venti volte rispetto al tragitto via terra e per il tragitto da Tarbert a Portavadie la distanza si accorcia fino a venticinque volte . 
ITALIAN Voglio poi sottolineare quanto sia necessario che il Parlamento continui a riconoscere il carattere essenziale di molti tragitti marittimi di corto raggio , e non mi riferisco solo alla necessità di sostenere gli obblighi del servizio pubblico . 
ITALIAN Dobbiamo , infatti , trovare altre vie percorribili per ridurre i costi connessi con il trasporto verso le isole e le comunità periferiche . 
ITALIAN Le economie di queste zone sono sempre contraddistinte da una certa fragilità e non è certamente giusto che i contadini dell ' isola di Lewis debbano pagare per il fieno il doppio di quanto pagano i contadini che vivono nell ' area di Inverness . 
ITALIAN Spero che la Commissione voglia considerare con attenzione quanto ho indicato , quando si tratterà di sviluppare una politica relativa a questo settore . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , il mio gruppo accoglie con favore la relazione della onorevole Peijs e la posizione della Commissione a cui la relazione stessa risponde . 
ITALIAN Come ha appena ricordato la onorevole Attwool , in Scozia la questione riguarda non solo il trasporto verso le isole ma anche i collegamenti marittimi di breve percorso lungo i cosiddetti lochs , ovvero , in termini geologici , i fiordi . L ' attraversamento via nave di questi stretti bracci di mare consente di evitare percorsi di 150 chilometri lungo strade strette che si inerpicano sui passi di montagna . 
ITALIAN Dovessimo interpretare con buon senso la normativa in materia di cabotaggio , dovremmo dire che è ovvio che queste penisole siano equivalenti in termini funzionali alle isole e che gli obblighi del servizio pubblico si applicano anche ad esse , rendendo legittimo il sostegno dello Stato ai servizi di trasporto . 
ITALIAN Allo stesso modo , si dovrebbe considerare in maniera complessiva l ' insieme dei tragitti che attraversano la Scozia occidentale , invece di spezzettarlo e prospettare una facile raccolta di utili a quegli imprenditori privati che intendono gestire i pochi tragitti economicamente vantaggiosi , rendendo più arduo sostenere quei tragitti che non producano profitto nel corso dell ' intero anno . 
ITALIAN Chiediamo insomma che il problema sia considerato in modo complessivo in tutta l ' Europa e auspichiamo che la Commissione adotti un ' impostazione improntata ad una maggiore previdenza . 
ITALIAN Prima dell ' interrogazione , la Commissione aveva vantato una profonda conoscenza della Scozia occidentale . 
ITALIAN Non ho ancora ricevuto risposta e chiedo perciò alla Commissione di replicare considerando l ' urgenza della questione . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , signora relatrice , onorevoli colleghi , la comunicazione della Commissione sullo sviluppo del trasporto marittimo a corto raggio in Europa e la successiva ottima relazione della onorevole Peijs ci forniscono un quadro realistico dell ' andamento registrato negli ultimi due anni da questa ecologica modalità di trasporto . 
ITALIAN E ' stato soprattutto grazie allo sviluppo e alla promozione del trasporto marittimo a corto raggio che si è potuto compiere un passo importante verso la realizzazione di un sistema di trasporto multimodale nell ' Unione europea e nelle regioni confinanti . 
ITALIAN Efficienza , costi favorevoli , compatibilità ambientale e sostenibilità sono gli elementi che distinguono il trasporto marittimo a corto raggio dal trasporto su strada , rendendolo una valida alternativa a quest ' ultimo nelle zone costiere . 
ITALIAN Tuttavia occorre anche potenziare l ' interazione tra le diverse modalità di trasporto per consentire ai peculiari elementi di forza di ciascuna modalità di esprimersi al meglio . 
ITALIAN A tal fine sono necessari una serie di provvedimenti di sostegno a livello europeo , nazionale e regionale da parte del settore pubblico e di quello privato affinché i porti , che costituiscono il punto nevralgico della catena di trasporto , si possano orientare e sviluppare in modo mirato alle esigenze specifiche . 
ITALIAN Inoltre si devono modificare i requisiti tecnici ed organizzativi , come ad esempio le formalità amministrative e la documentazione , le procedure doganali e di scarico , in maniera tale da consentire un passaggio rapido e tranquillo da una modalità di trasporto ad un ' altra e da un paese ad un altro . 
ITALIAN Vanno , poi , compiuti ulteriori passi per favorire il trasporto marittimo a corto raggio introducendo incentivi speciali al fine di sviluppare tecnologie innovative , costruire terminal per il disbrigo delle operazioni che siano riservati esclusivamente a questa modalità , nonché favorire l ' integrazione dei porti nella strategia di sviluppo delle regioni costiere . 
ITALIAN Fare tutto ciò è di importanza fondamentale nell ' ottica del rafforzamento della coesione economica e sociale e dei legami tra i centri e le regioni periferiche all ' interno dell ' Unione europea . 
ITALIAN La crescente collaborazione economica tra l ' Unione e i paesi confinanti e il conseguente aumento del bisogno di trasporto possono trovare un ' efficiente realizzazione grazie all ' integrazione del trasporto marittimo a corto raggio nella catena logistica delle forniture da porta a porta . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , intervengo a nome del collega Van Dam . 
ITALIAN La politica dei trasporti esige delle scelte . 
ITALIAN Una politica dei trasporti sostenibile esige ancora più o , in ogni caso , altre scelte . 
ITALIAN Il compito che spetta a quest ' Assemblea consiste nell ' agevolare i flussi di merci e di persone in modo da provocare il minor numero possibile di ripercussioni negative . 
ITALIAN La forma di trasporto in esame , il trasporto marittimo a corto raggio , ha la reputazione di essere una forma di trasporto che rappresenta da più di un punto di vista un ' alternativa alle conseguenze negative del settore dei trasporti , in particolare occupazione dello spazio e inquinamento ambientale . 
ITALIAN Tuttavia , come sottolineato giustamente dalla onorevole Peijs , il settore non sfrutta al massimo le opportunità che gli vengono offerte . 
ITALIAN Desidero evidenziare alcuni punti . 
ITALIAN Spesso sentiamo dire che il trasporto marittimo a corto raggi. e il trasporto su vie d ' acqua in gener. costituiscono una forma ecologica per quanto riguarda le emissioni per unità trasportata . 
ITALIAN Ciò è vero , se visto in un ' ottica relativa . 
ITALIAN Tuttavia l ' evoluzione registrata in questo ambito da altri settori , in particolare dal trasporto su strada , mette a rischio questa posizione . 
ITALIAN In considerazione degli sviluppi manifestatisi nel settore del trasporto su strada in seguito alle nuove norme europee in materia di emissioni previste per i carburanti , ritengo che sia necessario stimolare un miglioramento delle prestazioni ambientali del trasporto marittimo a corto raggio varando una direttiva europea sulle emissioni massime consentite dei motori delle navi . 
ITALIAN Inoltre , a differenza di alcuni colleghi , penso che il trasporto marittimo a corto raggio debba fungere non soltanto da integrazione delle modalità di trasporto esistenti , ma anche da alternativa ai flussi di trasporto intracomunitari . 
ITALIAN Tenuto conto della problematica relativa alla distribuzione e allo sconto sugli ECO - punti in Austria , è estremamente opportuna una rotta alternativa sull ' asse nord - sud . 
ITALIAN Un terzo punto riguarda la situazione nei porti . 
ITALIAN Se il trasporto marittimo a corto raggio intende diventare più competitivo anche per quanto concerne la velocità , occorre varare misure in materia di sdoganamento e attività di carico e scarico , come giustamente evidenziato dalla relatrice . 
ITALIAN Se poi questo settore funzionerà meglio e in maniera più moderna , sarà necessario rendere note le opportunità che offre . 
ITALIAN In alcuni Stati , fra cui i Paesi Bassi , sono stati realizzati a tale scopo , e con successo , uffici d ' informazione . 
ITALIAN Si raccomanda inoltre che le autorità nazionali e regionali contribuiscano in questo modo alla crescita del settore . 
ITALIAN Se gli interessati si assumeranno le loro responsabilità , tra un paio d ' anni non potremo fare altro che concludere con un motto che nei Paesi Bassi è già ben conosciuto : " trasporto via acqua , la via migliore " . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , per i visitatori stranieri , la traversata verso le isole scozzesi è un ' esperienza romantica , e in effetti la bellezza di quei luoghi non manca mai di stupire sia la gente del luogo che i turisti . 
ITALIAN Però , per coloro che là risiedono e si guadagnano da vivere , i servizi marittimi verso le isole hanno certamente un ' importanza vitale ma sono anche un ostacolo oneroso che limita il benessere sociale ed economico . 
ITALIAN Gli oneri non riguardano solo le tariffe , spesso impegnative , ma anche gli inconvenienti legati alla prenotazione , alle file di attesa , alla necessità di adeguarsi ad orari che prevedono poche corse e per giunta soggette a variazioni ; vi è poi da mettere in conto il rischio di ritardi e cancellazioni dovuti alle condizioni meteorologiche o a guasti meccanici o , ancora , a scioperi che di tanto in tanto relegano le isole in una condizione di isolamento forzato . 
ITALIAN Le isole scozzesi seguono con preoccupazione la politica dell ' Unione europea in materia di concorrenza , la quale , richiedendo di sottoporre i servizi di trasporto a gare improntate appunto al principio della concorrenza , comprometterebbe la qualità di questi essenziali servizi già al livello in cui essi si trovano adesso e provocherebbe un ' ulteriore spinta verso l ' alto del costo della vita e dei costi legati alla conduzione di attività economiche . 
ITALIAN Dobbiamo invece rassicurare coloro che vivono e lavorano su queste vulnerabili isole e sulle più remote penisole , dicendo loro che non avranno nulla da temere dall ' introduzione di misure di concorrenza nel processo di aggiudicazione dei servizi in oggetto . 
ITALIAN Vorrei perciò chiedere alla Commissione di fare quanto le è possibile per rassicurare la popolazione isolana , il Parlamento e il governo della Scozia , che peraltro sta affrontando con difficoltà l ' attuale situazione , e di affermare la propria disponibilità a garantire che il processo di liberalizzazione si svolga correttamente , senza peggiorare ma anzi migliorando i servizi marittimi delle isole scozzesi . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , signor Commissario , onorevoli colleghi , essendo un isolano che vive in un paese con coste molto estese e moltissime isole , conosco assai bene l ' importanza del trasporto marittimo a corto raggio . 
ITALIAN Vale la pena ricordare che , malgrado l ' aumento del volume dei trasporti di questo genere negli ultimi anni , il trasporto su strada è cresciuto molto di più ; ciò significa che si deve prestare particolare attenzione al trasporto marittimo , che è più rispettoso dell ' ambiente . 
ITALIAN La sua immagine attuale non è affatto attraente per il consumatore , che lo considera alquanto sorpassato , lento e complesso . 
ITALIAN Ulteriori ostacoli allo sviluppo del trasporto marittimo sono rappresentati dalle procedure amministrative , certo migliorabili , dai ritardi , dalle infrastrutture incomplete , dalle tasse portuali non sempre trasparenti , nonché dagli oneri di ormeggio che si potrebbero evitare . 
ITALIAN E ' comunque possibile migliorare quest ' immagine , presentando il trasporto marittimo come un ' alternativa duratura per i carichi trasportabili con altre modalità . 
ITALIAN Pur essendo fondamentale il ruolo del settore privato , vi sono aspetti del mercato che impongono l ' intervento degli enti pubblici a livello regionale , nazionale ed europeo e un apposito contributo economico , affinché gli abitanti delle isole non si sentano cittadini europei di seconda categoria . 
ITALIAN Lo sviluppo del cabotaggio è una conseguenza diretta del progresso socioeconomico delle nostre regioni e quindi della coesione nell ' Unione . 
ITALIAN E ' certo con questo spirito che la relatrice ha affrontato la problematica , occupandosene con grande serietà , e credo che ad un isolano come me non resti che congratularmi con lei . 
ITALIAN Ringrazio anche il Commissario Verheugen , che sta ascoltando la traduzione in cuffia , per l ' attenzione riservata alle dichiarazioni di voto degli onorevoli colleghi che mi hanno preceduto . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , onorevoli colleghi , signor Commissario , la relazione della onorevole Peijs , che tratta dei trasporti marittimi a corto raggio e chiede agli Stati membri e alla Commissione l ' adozione di misure che promuovano questo genere di trasporti , appare estremamente opportuna in quanto coincide con il nostro tentativo di correggere le disparità regionali . 
ITALIAN Mi permetto come sempre di ricordare che la politica regionale e strutturale dell ' Unione costituisce , nel suo insieme , una risposta alle specifiche difficoltà che devono affrontare alcune regioni europee , come le cosiddette regioni ultraperiferiche . 
ITALIAN La Commissione ha presentato nel marzo scorso una relazione nella quale si delinea una strategia orientata allo sviluppo sostenibile di queste aree e che prevede vari aspetti principali , fra cui quello dei rapporti delle regioni ultraperiferiche con i rispettivi contesti geografici , che ne condizionano in buona parte lo sviluppo . 
ITALIAN Valutiamo dunque in modo positivo la relazione della onorevole Peijs , soprattutto se perfezionata grazie all ' emendamento da me presentato riguardo all ' inclusione del trasporto via mare fra porti situati nelle regioni ultraperiferiche e nei paesi del loro contesto geografico . 
ITALIAN Si potrà in tal modo correggere l ' errore in cui è incorsa la Commissione allorché ha elaborato la relazione biennale sullo sviluppo di questo genere di trasporti , avendo utilizzato una definizione incompleta del trasporto marittimo a corto raggio . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , signor Commissario , onorevoli colleghi , per le regioni periferiche il trasporto marittimo a corto raggio è decisamente la soluzione più economica , efficace e appropriata . 
ITALIAN Ringrazio la onorevole Peijis per l ' interessante e buona relazione . 
ITALIAN Nel mio paese il trasporto marittimo è quasi interamente costituito dal trasporto a corto raggio , che ha dunque per noi una grande importanza . 
ITALIAN Rappresentiamo un ' eccezione anche perché siamo collegati via terra agli altri paesi dell ' Unione europea solo al nostro confine settentrionale , per cui il traffico marittimo riveste un enorme significato . 
ITALIAN Oltretutto , le nostre linee ferroviarie hanno uno scartamento diverso da quello degli altri paesi dell ' Unione . 
ITALIAN L ' aspetto più particolare è , però , dato dal fatto che il trasporto marittimo si ferma sempre d ' inverno , a meno che non si adottino misure adeguate , perché il mare si ghiaccia . 
ITALIAN A causa di ciò ci siamo dovuti dotare di una flotta speciale di navi rompighiaccio ; si tratta di navi potenti , l ' energia di una delle quali corrisponde all ' energia usata da una città . 
ITALIAN Così stando le cose , ossia avendo noi questo ostacolo alla circolazione , speriamo che sia possibile finanziare l ' impiego delle navi rompighiaccio , dato che l ' ostacolo è stato messo da Dio e noi non possiamo farci assolutamente nulla . 
ITALIAN E ' , inoltre , deprecabile che non siano messi abbastanza in evidenza i risvolti sociali e occupazionali del traffico marittimo . 
ITALIAN E ' un problema che va affrontato . 
ITALIAN Il personale di volo viene sempre ben istruito , ma lo stesso non si può dire della forza lavoro a buon mercato che lavora sulle navi . 
ITALIAN Aspetto l ' intervento della Commissione in questa questione . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , anche io voglio congratularmi con la onorevole Peijs per la sua valida relazione . 
ITALIAN L ' ottima relazione della onorevole Peijs mira a sfruttare le possibilità offerte dal trasporto marittimo a corto raggio ed è un importante compendio alle relazioni sul traffico aereo e quello ferroviario . 
ITALIAN Abbiamo proprio bisogno di catene logistiche funzionanti e competitive , che colleghino il trasporto stradale , ferroviario e marittimo a corto raggio e anche la moderna tecnologia dell ' informazione . 
ITALIAN Per i paesi di confine e separati dal mare , tra cui la Finlandia , il trasporto marittimo a corto raggio è una vera e propria necessità vitale , come ha constatato un attimo fa l ' onorevole Paasilinna . 
ITALIAN Voglio ancora sottolineare l ' adeguatezza e la disponibilità dei porti e dei servizi portuali . 
ITALIAN I porti devono essere inseriti nelle grandi reti europee come parte della struttura di base dei trasporti . 
ITALIAN L ' attuazione delle misure proposte nella relazione presuppone un contributo effettivo allo sviluppo del trasporto marittimo a corto raggio nonché una buona cooperazione da parte dell ' Unione , degli Stati membri anche a livello locale e , inoltre , delle aziende . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , voglio innanzitutto esprimere il mio ringraziamento alla relatrice , la quale con tutta evidenza ha dedicato a questa ottima relazione molto tempo , portando alla luce una cospicua serie di questioni . 
ITALIAN A seconda del luogo da cui li si guarda , i problemi appaiono assai differenti tra loro poiché ogni regione dell ' Unione europea ha le proprie , particolari difficoltà da affrontare . 
ITALIAN Dobbiamo riconoscere che ci vorrà un certo tempo per raggiungere l ' obiettivo finale , ma non c ' è dubbio che è nostro dovere cercare di promuovere il traffico marittimo a corto raggio ben più di quanto abbiamo fatto finora . 
ITALIAN E ' certamente sensato trasportare una maggior quantità di merci via mare piuttosto che su gomma , essendo tale modalità di trasporto maggiormente compatibile con l ' ambiente e più vantaggiosa da ogni punto di vista . 
ITALIAN Tra i maggiori problemi da affrontare , vi sarà sempre quello dell ' incidenza dei costi . 
ITALIAN Per essere competitivi , i porti devono essere più efficienti e per essere tali avranno certamente bisogno di maggiore sostegno . 
ITALIAN Appoggio la richiesta della onorevole Attwooll in merito all ' autostrada A75 . 
ITALIAN Essa prende atto che , nell ' Irlanda del nord , l ' esportazione di merci deve misurarsi con i costi molto elevati dell ' attraversamento del tratto di mare che separa l ' Irlanda del nord dalla Scozia , la regione verso la quale si dirigono gran parte dei nostri prodotti e dalla quale essi raggiungono poi l ' Inghilterra . 
ITALIAN Quel servizio di trasporto può certamente essere effettuato in modo più efficiente ed ecologicamente sostenibile , ma non in modo più economico . 
ITALIAN Perché le nostre industrie e l ' agricoltura possano sopravvivere , deve esserci un rapporto vantaggioso tra costi e benefici . 
ITALIAN Fino a qualche tempo fa , i collegamenti tra Ballycastle e la Scozia meridionale erano garantiti da un ottimo servizio di traghetti , che però è stato costretto a cessare l ' attività a causa della mancanza di sostegno e della burocrazia . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , signora relatrice , vorrei innanzitutto congratularmi con lei per la qualità della relazione da lei presentata . 
ITALIAN I colleghi intervenuti finora hanno tutti ricordato , come lei , che il trasporto marittimo a corto raggio gode purtroppo di un ' immagine negativa a causa della sua lentezza o della sua inefficacia , mentre offre una risposta al problema della congestione del traffico , dell ' elevato costo delle infrastrutture e dell ' inquinamento . 
ITALIAN D ' altra parte , questa modalità di trasporto ha registrato negli ultimi anni un indiscutibile successo , benché poco nota e ancora carente . 
ITALIAN Ma come ha detto lei , il trasporto marittimo a corto raggio presenta vantaggi in termini di costi , di energia , di efficienza , di coesione regionale , di ambiente e persino di intermodalità , essendo un mezzo ideale per la realizzazione di trasporti multimodali . 
ITALIAN Vanno quindi prese rapidamente misure finalizzate ad ottimizzare le operazioni portuali nonché a ridurre i tempi di attesa nei porti . 
ITALIAN Insisto , personalmente , affinché il settore pubblico svolga il ruolo che gli compete , sia a livello regionale che nazionale ed europeo . 
ITALIAN Nella sua relazione , tuttavia , vi sono due punti che mi lasciano perplesso . 
ITALIAN Prima di tutto , la proposta di compilare un elenco dei porti particolarmente adatti al trasporto marittimo a corto raggio . 
ITALIAN Non mi sembra necessario , in quanto si rischia di penalizzare quelli che oggi non sono ancora del tutto adeguati ma che potranno attrezzarsi per il futuro . 
ITALIAN Si suggerisce peraltro anche di centralizzare in un unico punto l ' offerta di servizi logistici di trasporto agli utenti finali . 
ITALIAN Sono senz ' altro favorevole ad un sistema informativo , ma sono personalmente contrario all ' idea che un grande porto , già in posizione di forza , diventi il catalizzatore di tutti i servizi . 
ITALIAN Infine , come membro della commissione per l ' industria , il commercio estero , la ricerca e l ' energia , avrei auspicato che si dichiarasse apertamente che il trasporto marittimo a corto raggio non deve essere considerato un ' alternativa , ma che sarebbe necessaria una strategia intermodale che renda complementari le diverse forme di trasporto . 
ITALIAN In quest ' ottica e in un simile contesto , gli Stati membri dovrebbero del resto armonizzare le relative regolamentazioni , specie per il trasporto terrestre , che spesso provoca , in termini di distorsioni , delle interruzioni nella catena del sistema dei trasporti . 
ITALIAN Se si vuole realizzare un sistema davvero intermodale , è essenziale disporre di un insieme di mezzi di trasporto e di regole che sia non tanto necessariamente comune , quanto perlomeno perfettamente armonizzato . 
ITALIAN . ( EN ) Signor Presidente , mi si consenta di ringraziare la onorevole Peijs per l ' eccellente relazione e per l ' impegno profuso nell ' elaborarla . 
ITALIAN Non ho notizia , infatti , di alcuna organizzazione o persona che non desideri lo sviluppo del traffico marittimo a corto raggio . 
ITALIAN In passato abbiamo colpevolmente sottovalutato il settore in questione . 
ITALIAN Facendo menzione del suo potenziale , abbiamo implicitamente affermato che esso non versa in una situazione positiva , quando invece sta agendo al meglio . 
ITALIAN Pur non essendo stato pubblicizzato a dovere , è tuttavia un dato di fatto che il trasporto marittimo a corto raggio è stato l ' unica modalità di trasporto che , nel corso degli anni novanta , ha dimostrato di essere in grado di reggere il passo con lo sviluppo del trasporto su strada . 
ITALIAN Dobbiamo perciò dare credito a questo settore , anche se c ' è sempre spazio per ulteriori miglioramenti e il settore marittimo è il primo ad ammetterlo . 
ITALIAN Mi si consenta ora di fare riferimento ad alcuni punti della relazione della onorevole Peijs . 
ITALIAN Dobbiamo adottare un ' impostazione globale per rendere tale modalità di trasporto un effettivo servizio porta a porta . 
ITALIAN Esso deve diventare parte integrante della catena di trasporto ed essere offerto con una logistica centralizzata . 
ITALIAN I Servizi della Commissione , in collaborazione con i nuovi Stati membri e con l ' industria del settore , stanno operando per localizzare tali strozzature , insieme con le possibili soluzioni . 
ITALIAN Un ' area già individuata è rappresentata dalla diversità dei documenti richiesti . 
ITALIAN In modo da raggiungere una maggiore uniformità , la Commissione intende presentare , entro la fine del corrente anno , una proposta finalizzata ad armonizzare una serie di documenti marittimi di arrivo e partenza . 
ITALIAN L ' efficienza dei porti è essenziale per questo tipo di trasporto e al riguardo , sempre entro la fine dell ' anno , la Commissione presenterà un pacchetto di misure volte a migliorare l ' efficienza per mezzo di un processo di liberalizzazione . 
ITALIAN E ' poi necessario aggiornare l ' immagine ormai obsoleta di questo tipo di traffico marittimo . 
ITALIAN La questione è già stata menzionata nel corso della presente discussione e al riguardo esprimo tutto il mio apprezzamento . 
ITALIAN La presenza di uffici nazionali per la promozione del trasporto a corto raggio assume un ruolo fondamentale nell ' attuazione della politica in materia . 
ITALIAN Alcuni di questi uffici già esistono e la Commissione intende incoraggiarne l ' ulteriore diffusione , in modo da formare una rete europea di promozione . 
ITALIAN La fonte principale degli aiuti comunitari al settore del trasporto marittimo a corto raggio è stata , in passato , il programma PACT , che consiste in un ' azione pilota a favore del trasporto combinato . 
ITALIAN Lo scorso anno , il 40 percento circa della dotazione PACT , pari a 2,3 milioni di euro , è stata utilizzata a favore del trasporto marittimo a corto raggio combinato . 
ITALIAN La Direzione generale competente intende mantenere questa linea d ' azione , in modo che il trasporto marittimo a corto raggio continui a fruire della giusta quota della dotazione PACT . 
ITALIAN In occasione dell ' imminente revisione del programma , si potrebbe anche arrivare ad incorporare tale principio nel testo ufficiale . 
ITALIAN Lo farò senz ' altro e la signora apprezzerà certamente la prospettiva di una romantica gita in Scozia , che peraltro sarebbe ancora più romantica se l ' onorevole Purvis volesse cedere a me il piacere di accompagnare il Commissario de Palacio . 
ITALIAN Onorevole Peijs , la ringrazio per il lavoro svolto e per avere confermato che tutti ci stiamo muovendo nella stessa direzione . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , desidero esprimere il mio disappunto in merito ad una questione , già oggetto di un ' interrogazione scritta alla Commissione da me presentata più di sei mesi fa , che ho riproposto nel corso della discussione e sulla quale non ho ancora ricevuto alcun segnale , tanto meno una risposta . 
ITALIAN La ringrazio , onorevole MacCormick . 
ITALIAN La votazione si svolgerà domani , venerdì , alle 9.00 . 
ITALIAN Dialogo civile 
ITALIAN L ' ordine del giorno reca l ' interrogazione orale alla Commissione ( B5 - 0533 / 2000 ) , a nome della commissione per l ' occupazione e gli affari sociali , sul futuro finanziamento del dialogo civile . 
ITALIAN Ha facoltà di parlare l ' onorevole Pronk . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , mi auguro che a quest ' ora tarda non avremo bisogno di molto tempo . 
ITALIAN E ' un peccato che dobbiamo concludere questa discussione di per sé assai importante . 
ITALIAN Se mi è consentito cogliere l ' occasione , penso che forse sarebbe opportuno se in futuro il martedì non decidessimo di introdurre il martedì sera un ' ulteriore tornata di votazioni , in modo da non incorrere in ulteriori ritardi nel corso della settimana . 
ITALIAN Forse sarebbe bene che lei presentasse questa proposta all ' Ufficio di presidenza . 
ITALIAN Naturalmente ciò non ha nulla a che fare con tali problemi . 
ITALIAN Non c ' è bisogno che mi dilunghi in molte spiegazioni . 
ITALIAN In primo luogo è indubbio che le organizzazioni non governative svolgono un ruolo estremamente importante sia negli Stati membri sia nell ' Unione europea sia al di fuori di essa . 
ITALIAN Tutti sono d ' accordo su questo , lo ha detto il Consiglio , lo ha affermato più volte la Commissione e anche il Parlamento lo ha ribadito in più occasioni . 
ITALIAN Inoltre , all ' articolo 13. se associato alle dichiarazioni 23 e 3. il Trattato sottolinea che ci dev ' essere collaborazione con , in particolare , i Wohlfahrtsverband , che ovviamente sono anche ONG . 
ITALIAN Il Parlamento europeo lo ha sempre fatto e a tale fine ha creato già parecchio tempo fa una linea di bilanci. la B3 410. per rendere possibile il finanziamento delle ONG . 
ITALIAN Però , in seguito alle diverse disposizioni concordate con il Consiglio e alle sentenze della Corte di giustizia , dopo circa tre anni la suddetta linea si è praticamente esaurita . 
ITALIAN Già da tre anni Commissione sapeva che ciò sarebbe accaduto . 
ITALIAN Non è questo il problema , bensì il fatto che si faccia così poco . 
ITALIAN Da un lato vediamo grande interesse , dall ' altro notiamo relativamente poche azioni concrete , ad eccezione del documento elaborato dalla Commissione , che noi richiediamo a gran voce . 
ITALIAN Il punto è come riuscire a tradurre in realtà le belle idee espresse . 
ITALIAN A ciò si aggiungono spess. non lo dico a nome della commissione , ma a titolo personal. problemi di carattere burocratico . 
ITALIAN E ' possibile che ciò sia dovuto al fatto che sono coinvolte diverse Direzioni generali della Commissione . 
ITALIAN Le ONG non ricadono sotto un ' unica DG . 
ITALIAN E ' possibile che si cerchi un ' ottica comune e che allo stesso tempo si vogliano individuare delle ottiche specifiche , ma ad ogni modo ciò richiede troppo tempo , perché le linee di bilancio si esauriscono . 
ITALIAN Questo è il motivo per cui stasera , a quest ' ora di per sé inopportuna , richiamiamo l ' attenzione della Commissione su questo problema . 
ITALIAN In particolare si tratta di una questione di velocità ; non si tratta dell ' intento della Commissione , ma della velocità alla quale è possibile realizzare i diversi obiettivi , poiché altrimenti rischiamo che sia uno dei compiti chiave affidatoci dal Trattato nelle dichiarazioni sia quanto ribadito nell ' ambito del Vertice di Feira non possano essere attuati per il fatto che le ONG , o almeno la maggior parte di ess. questo è l ' unico problema - , sono estremamente vulnerabili per quanto riguarda le interruzioni nei pagamenti , lo sono molto di più rispetto ad altre organizzazioni e certamente agli Stati membri . 
ITALIAN Ciò significa che , se si aspetta troppo , esse sono destinate a morte sicura . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , sarò telegrafico . 
ITALIAN Ritengo che la risposta del signor Commissario sia di per sé incoraggiante . 
ITALIAN Penso che in effetti il Parlamento debba fare del suo meglio per non ostacolare le procedure . 
ITALIAN Devo però rilevare che il Parlamento , con le possibilità che gli si offrivano , soprattutto sotto il profilo finanziario , ha fatto del suo meglio per mantenere le linee di bilancio che consentivano di continuare a finanziare le ONG , solo che , a partire da un certo momento , ciò non è più possibile e pertanto acquista grande rilevanza la velocità . 
ITALIAN Un ' ultima osservazione in relazione alla risposta ufficiale del Commissario in merito alla Conferenza intergovernativa . 
ITALIAN Non si tratta tanto del contenuto dell ' attuale Trattato o delle attuali dichiarazioni , bensì di elaborare le dichiarazioni in modo da poter creare una base giuridica sulla quale fondare un programma . 
ITALIAN Questo è il vero problema e chiedo al signor Commissario se la Commissione possa rivolgere l ' attenzione su questo aspetto . 
ITALIAN Non chiediamo quindi un nuovo Trattato , ma maggiore attenzione . 
ITALIAN Infine , in considerazione del fatto che anche nel quadro dell ' ampliamento dobbiamo affrontare il tema dello sviluppo delle ONG nei nuovi Stati membri , riteniamo che a tale problematica debba essere riservata la massima priorità . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , intervengo a nome del gruppo socialista a sostegno di quanto ha espresso l ' onorevole Pronk a nome di tutta la commissione . 
ITALIAN Sappiamo che da anni esiste un colloquio . 
ITALIAN Noi , come Parlamento , abbiamo avuto un ruolo fondamentale in questo , pero ' , ora , dai colloqui e dalle dichiarazioni occorre passare agli atti concreti . 
ITALIAN Trovo anche una certa contraddizione e provo una certa preoccupazione , che non è solo mia ma credo anche della commissione per l ' occupazione e gli affari sociali , perché mi sembra che i comportamenti della Commissione siano un po ' contraddittori fra di loro . 
ITALIAN Il ruolo delle organizzazioni non governative nel processo di costruzione democratica dell ' Unione e il ruolo anche sul piano economico e sociale che esse svolgono in Europa , tutto il settore dell ' economia sociale , del terzo settore , ormai è riconosciuto , non solo nei documenti ma nella concreta realt. se teniamo conto che circa nove milioni di lavoratori sono occupati in questo settor. come un settore fondamentale e importante . 
ITALIAN Ebbene , la Commissione , nelle sue ultime scelt. mi riferisco alla Direzione generale industri. ritiene che questa sia una priorità negativ. ora hanno inventato le priorità positive e negativ. e ha soppresso l ' unità operativa " economia sociale " . 
ITALIAN Bene , io credo che questo sia gravissimo e non ci fa ben sperare che le dichiarazioni che qui vengono riaffermate , che abbiamo sentito più volte , portino poi a degli atti concreti nella direzione contraria . 
ITALIAN La piattaforma delle ONG , strumento con cui la Commissione e il Parlamento hanno mantenuto un colloquio , tutto questo mondo si sente un po ' preso in giro , e credo che anche noi parlamentari ci sentiamo un po ' presi in giro , quando le dichiarazioni vanno in una certa direzione e , poi , le decisioni concrete vanno in un ' altra . 
ITALIAN La mancanza di un interlocutore , anche dal punto di vista funzionariale , renderà più difficile la soluzione di questi problemi , invece di renderli più facili . 
ITALIAN Le ONG , dal nostro punto di vista , agiscono come una parte del processo di prevenzione e costituiscono un meccanismo di indagine , un modo per accertare che non vadano perduti taluni aspetti delle norme che andiamo elaborando . 
ITALIAN Esse ci portano a considerare elementi di novità e sono fondamentali nel processo di cui noi siamo parte , oltre ad essere tra le poche organizzazioni che agiscono davvero per conto dei cittadini . Se intendiamo davvero creare un clima di fiducia entro le strutture che cerchiamo di costruire , il loro ruolo è certamente essenziale . 
ITALIAN Un elemento di indubbia importanza riguarda il fatto che le ONG possono controbilanciare i tanti interessi economici che non sembrano avere difficoltà finanziarie a trovare una strada che conduca alla nostra porta , mentre per molte ONG l ' azione a livello internazionale è enormemente costosa . 
ITALIAN Il lavoro svolto dalle varie commissioni nel corso delle ultime settimane sull ' articolo 13, quello contro la discriminazione , sarebbe stato impossibile senza la collaborazione di questi soggetti . 
ITALIAN Si è parlato dei paesi candidati e non posso che ripetere le parole del mio collega , onorevole Pronk , e riaffermare che il movimento costituito dalle ONG e dalla società civile in quei paesi sarà fondamentale per realizzare un ' Unione europea costruita sui valori della giustizia e della democrazia . 
ITALIAN Voglio infine insistere sul fatto che si debba trovare una via per creare un meccanismo serio e affidabile di finanziamento almeno a favore delle organizzazioni che rappresentano i cittadini poveri , esclusi e discriminati , in modo che esse non debbano affannarsi ogni anno a reperire finanziamenti senza sapere se riusciranno a sopravvivere e a proseguire l ' opera per la quale sono state istituite . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , negli ultimi anni l ' Unione ha ricevuto sempre più importanti competenze in materia sociale , però non ha avuto a disposizione fondi corrispondenti per risolvere i problemi di natura sociale . 
ITALIAN Fintantoché gli Stati membri riterranno che le questioni sociali rappresentino una competenza sostanzialmente nazionale , questo stato di cose non cambierà in tempi rapidi . 
ITALIAN Sappiamo che i fondi disponibili sono strettamente legati al bilancio e che operare storni non è facile . 
ITALIAN E , sino a quando questa sarà la concezione degli Stati membri , sarà molto difficile soddisfare nuove esigenze . 
ITALIAN Per tali ragioni ritengo della massima importanza per noi , che lavoriamo in seno alle Istituzioni comunitarie , riconoscere alle organizzazioni non governative che operano in ambito sociale in Europa molta più importanza di quanto accade ora . 
ITALIAN Tutti riconosciamo la necessità di azioni transfrontaliere anche in ambito sociale . 
ITALIAN Ecco perché vi è spazio per le ONG . 
ITALIAN Ma sarebbe del tutto infelice , ed è forse proprio questa l ' intenzione degli Stati membri , se le ONG divenissero economicamente dipendenti dall ' UE , e politicamente del tutto vincolate a quest. ancor più di quanto non stia già accadendo . 
ITALIAN Il loro valore risiede proprio nel loro carattere volontario e civico e nella capacità di vedere i problemi sociali in un ' altra prospettiva rispetto alle autorità ; ciò consente alle ONG di fungere da complemento , da alternativa rispetto a Commissione , Consiglio e Parlamento . 
ITALIAN Nonostante siano in pochi ad ascoltar. vedo che i parlamentari in Aula sono circa sei soltant. vorrei presentare una proposta . 
ITALIAN Propongo che la Commissione si dia da fare per istituire un fondo europeo finalizzato proprio alle ONG operanti in ambito sociale . 
ITALIAN Propongo che la Commissione interpelli il Consiglio e gli Stati membri nel tentativo di ottenere un contributo per tale fondo . 
ITALIAN Dovrebbe trattarsi di un fondo creato a titolo di organismo indipendente , con un consiglio di amministrazione composto da persone provenienti dalle organizzazioni sociali stesse , da ricercatori e da esperti di questioni sociale . 
ITALIAN Si potrebbe ipotizzare che una simile organizzazione possa sottrarsi a una parte dei problemi connessi alla burocrazia . 
ITALIAN Il controllo economico avverrebbe a cura di revisori professionisti . 
ITALIAN Credo che , se tale sfida verrà raccolta con una certa finezza diplomatica , gli Stati membri reagiranno positivamente alla proposta . 
ITALIAN E credo ancora che le altre parti , sia i soggetti socialmente penalizzati , sia le ONG , sia gli Stai membri , sia le Istituzioni dell ' Unione si rallegrerebbero enormemente della creazione di un simile fondo . 
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , concordo con quanto hanno affermato le onorevoli Lambert e Ghilardotti . 
ITALIAN Le ONG europee attive in campo sociale hanno assunto un ruolo essenziale per il lavoro del Parlamento . 
ITALIAN Chiunque abbia partecipato all ' elaborazione del pacchetto contro la discriminazione , ovvero l ' articolo 13, se ne è reso ben conto . 
ITALIAN A partire dalla crisi di bilancio del 1998, a causa della quale sono stati congelati i fondi destinati all ' azione delle ONG a favore dei cittadini più deboli in Europa e nei paesi in via di sviluppo , sono stati fatti molti progressi . 
ITALIAN La Presidenza portoghese ha avviato un nuovo corso , invitando la Piattaforma europea delle ONG al vertice informale di Lisbona in materia di affari sociali , e la Presidenza francese sta percorrendo la stessa via . 
ITALIAN Le conclusioni del vertice di Lisbona contengono un esplicito riferimento a questo genere di iniziative . 
ITALIAN Ma le parole non bastano e le difficoltà , due anni dopo la crisi del 1998, non sono affatto scomparse . 
ITALIAN Dopo un biennio di consultazioni con le ONG , la Commissione è stata in grado solo di produrre un documento di riflessione e di costituire due gruppi interni di lavoro che hanno lavorato assai poco . 
ITALIAN Nel frattempo il settore delle ONG , in cui io stesso ho avuto modo di lavorare , sta soffocando a causa di norme burocratiche che , introdotte per promuovere la trasparenza e la responsabilità , alla fine hanno creato soltanto ulteriori oneri burocratici . 
ITALIAN Anche la nostra Assemblea , signor Presidente , contribuisce a complicare la situazione già difficile delle ONG , approvando complesse norme in materia di requisiti di cofinanziamento a cui si accompagnano scadenze strettissime . 
ITALIAN L ' unica linea di bilancio a disposizione , la B3 4101, è stata smantellata e la Commissione non ha prodotto alcuna proposta finalizzata a stabilire una base giuridica per il dialogo civile per mezzo di un regolamento del Consiglio o di un articolo del Trattato . 
ITALIAN Ma quel che è peggio , alle ONG attive in campo sociale la Commissione ha comunicato che il finanziamento a loro favore dovrà utilizzare le nuove linee di bilancio dedicate alla lotta alla discriminazione e all ' esclusione sociale . 
ITALIAN Ma come sarà possibile farlo se i fondi a disposizione per quei programmi sono stati ridotti oltre ogni misura ragionevole ? 
ITALIAN Molte ONG , la cui azione in campo sociale è preziosa , devono fronteggiare una situazione di grave crisi a causa dell ' inerzia della Commissione e del Consiglio . 
ITALIAN Conosco il caso di una ONG che ha richiesto il finanziamento su alcuni progetti per i quali era necessario presentare ottanta pagine di documenti di bilancio e un tale numero di documenti di supporto che la domanda di finanziamento alla fine pesava oltre dodici chilogrammi . 
ITALIAN Questa situazione deve mutare , signor Presidente . 
ITALIAN Ringrazio tutti gli onorevoli deputati che sono intervenuti nella discussione per le loro osservazioni , anche per quelle negative . 
ITALIAN Sarà mia cura inoltrarle a chi di dovere e iscriverle nell ' agenda della Commissione . 
ITALIAN Risponderò ora brevemente a due sole osservazioni . 
ITALIAN La prima riguarda le basi giuridiche e il finanziamento . 
ITALIAN Non va dimenticato che l ' elemento distintivo delle organizzazioni non governative è che esse non dovrebbero dipendere da finanziamenti pubblici , ché altrimenti non potrebbero chiamarsi " organizzazioni non governative " , bensì dovrebbero chiamarsi " organizzazioni governative " . 
ITALIAN Mi riesce pertanto difficile comprendere la richiesta , espressa più volte , secondo cui dovrebbero essere i governi o la Commissione ad assicurare integralmente il finanziamento delle ONG . 
ITALIAN Un tanto per mettere in chiaro una questione di principio . 
ITALIAN La seconda osservazione si riferisce ad un punto che è stato affrontato ripetutamente , ossia le ONG e l ' allargamento . 
ITALIAN Tutte le proposte che sono state formulate in proposito durante la discussione odierna sono divenute realtà già da lungo tempo . 
ITALIAN Nell ' ambito degli aiuti di preadesione siamo fortemente impegnati nella collaborazione con le ONG dei paesi candidati , mentre la strategia di comunicazione , il cui quadro organizzativo e finanziario è stato nel frattempo precisato , è rivolta anch ' essa in modo particolare alle ONG di detti paesi , poiché l ' obiettivo è esattamente quello di coinvolgere appieno la società civile in questo importante processo politico . 
ITALIAN Vi ringrazio , onorevoli colleghi . 
ITALIAN ( La seduta termina alle 21.08 ) 
FRENCH Approbation du procès - verbal de la séance précédente 
FRENCH Le procès - verbal de la séance d ' hier a été distribué . 
FRENCH Y a - t - il des observations - ? 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , lundi , j ' ai soulevé une motion de procédure sur les commentaires de la Présidente Nicole Fontaine que la presse britannique aurait rapportés et qui concernaient sa récente rencontre avec Sa Majesté la Reine Elizabeth II . 
FRENCH Un député travailliste de cette Assemblée , M. - Miller , a répété , non pas une fois , mais trois fois , le lundi , le mardi et le mercredi , les remarques que la Reine aurait faites . 
FRENCH Il a tenté d ' attirer la Reine dans une controverse politique et d ' utiliser son nom à des fins politiciennes . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , Mme Fontaine n ' avait peut - être pas connaissance des règles régissant le protocole britannique qui sont en vigueur en la matière , mais M. - Miller n ' a aucune excuse . 
FRENCH Il sait pertinemment que depuis cinquante ans , elle a scrupuleusement évité de s ' engager dans des controverses politiques . 
FRENCH Il sait pertinemment qu ' elle ne peut intervenir devant cette Assemblée pour dissiper tout malentendu . 
FRENCH Son attitude est honteuse et scandaleuse 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , je suis fier d ' être britannique mais aujourd ' hui , j ' ai honte de partager ma nationalité avec cet homme . 
FRENCH Ne ressent - il aucune honte - ? 
FRENCH Ne fait - il preuve d ' aucun respect - ? 
FRENCH A - t - il une once de décence ou d ' honneur - ? 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , je voudrais intervenir , grâce à cette motion de procédure , en ma qualité de président de la délégation pour l ' Amérique centrale et le Mexique . 
FRENCH Ainsi que vous le savez , Monsieur le Président , des élections ont eu lieu dimanche dernier . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , Mesdames et Messieurs , je voudrais signaler un problème important concernant le procès - verbal . 
FRENCH Ce procès - verbal comprend également les textes approuvés . 
FRENCH Le milieu du deuxième paragraphe de la version anglaise fait uniquement référence à la représentation devant les tribunaux , mais pas aux conseils juridiques , comme c ' est le cas dans le texte allemand . 
FRENCH Il s ' agit d ' un point déterminant de cette directive . Étant donné que le groupe de travail du Conseil travaille sur la base du texte anglais , il est dès lors très important que ce texte soit corrigé . 
FRENCH J ' ai déjà fait part de mon mécontentement à l ' égard des services linguistiques en commission . 
FRENCH Auparavant , une proposition d ' amendement a été refusée , car le texte allemand était le texte original -- la langue du rapporteur . 
FRENCH Je m ' en suis plaint hier -- ce n ' est par réglé - , je réitère mes critiques aujourd ' hui pour la troisième fois . 
FRENCH Je pense que , pour des questions aussi importantes que celle - ci , les services de ce Parlement devraient travailler de manière plus sérieuse . Il n ' est en effet pas tolérable que , malgré les critiques que j ' ai formulées hier , le procès - verbal reste erroné sur ce point - ! 
FRENCH Je demande que ce problème soit traité à la racine , que cet aspect des plus importants pour la directive en question trouve une solution et que l ' on corrige , s ' il vous plaît , la traduction anglaise - ! 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , nous avons reçu hier du vice - président vert un document jaune auquel étaient jointes des noix . 
FRENCH Ce document demande que l ' exportation des produits de Vanuatu , un des pays en développement du Pacifique , soit soutenue . 
FRENCH Une telle demande est à mon sens très bonne et tout à fait en règle . 
FRENCH Je la soutiendrai volontiers . 
FRENCH La seule chose qui m ' a surpris , c ' est que le Vice - président précise que l ' importation de ces noix au sein de l ' Union européenne est illégale . 
FRENCH Puis - je dès lors demander au Vice - président de nous expliquer comment l ' importation illégale de ces noix s ' est déroulée , vu qu ' il nous en a livrées quelques - unes - ? 
FRENCH C ' est en soi une contradiction et je l ' invite à l ' éclaircir . 
FRENCH ( Rires et applaudissements ) 
FRENCH ( Le Parlement approuve le procès - verbal ) 
FRENCH Souhaits de bienvenue 
FRENCH Commission des pétitions -- Médiateur européen 
FRENCH L ' ordre du jour appelle , en discussion commune , les rapports suivants présentés par la commission des pétitions - : 
FRENCH A5 - 0162 / 2000 de Mme - Lambert , sur les délibérations de la commission des pétitions au cours de l ' année parlementaire 1999 - 2000 - ; 
FRENCH A5 - 0181 / 2000 de Mme - Thors , sur le rapport d ' activité annuel du Médiateur européen pour l ' année 1999 . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , je suis heureux de pouvoir communiquer au Parlement européen les résultats des travaux que j ' ai menés en tant que médiateur européen pour l ' année 1999 . 
FRENCH Le rapport annuel pour 1999 couvre la dernière année du premier mandat du médiateur européen . 
FRENCH L ' année dernière , le bureau du médiateur a reçu 1577 nouvelles plaintes , comparées aux 1372 plaintes en 1998, c ' est - à - dire une augmentation de près de 15 - % . 
FRENCH Le nombre d ' enquêtes ouvertes est passé de 171 en 1998 à 206 en 1999, ce qui représente une augmentation de plus de 20 - % . 
FRENCH Outre le fait qu ' il gagne en notoriété , le médiateur européen attire une proportion plus importante de plaintes sérieuses nécessitant une enquête complète . 
FRENCH Les enquêtes constituent l ' aspect le plus exigeant du travail du médiateur en terme de ressources . 
FRENCH En 1999, une proportion assez élevée de plaintes , environ 70 - % , qui dépassaient le cadre du mandat du médiateur européen , nous sont encore parvenues . 
FRENCH La proportion de plaintes dépassant le cadre du mandat a même légèrement augmenté , probablement en raison du fait que nous en avons reçu un nombre croissant par courrier électronique . 
FRENCH Nous sommes heureux d ' accepter des plaintes par courrier électronique et beaucoup d ' entre elles contiennent des allégations bien présentées de mauvaise administration . 
FRENCH Toutefois , la plus grande partie de ce type de plaintes est dirigée contre les autorités des États membres . 
FRENCH L ' année dernière , lors de la campagne en vue de l ' élection du médiateur européen , certaines voix critiques ont suggéré que le mandat du médiateur devrait être élargi afin d ' y inclure des plaintes formulées à l ' encontre d ' États membres dans les cas où interviendrait la législation de l ' Union européenne . 
FRENCH Je ne suis pas sûr qu ' elles aient compris que cela signifiait , pour le médiateur , effectuer des tâches relevant actuellement de la Commission européenne en tant que gardienne des Traités et du Parlement européen , en tant que forum démocratique auquel les citoyens peuvent adresser des pétitions . 
FRENCH Nous étudions minutieusement toutes les plaintes que nous recevons , en particulier si celles - ci impliquent des droits dans le cadre de la législation de l ' Union européenne . 
FRENCH En 1999, nous sommes parvenus à conseiller le plaignant ou à transférer la plainte vers un organisme compétent et ce pour la moitié des cas environ . 
FRENCH Parmi ces cas , nous en avons transféré 71 au Parlement européen et qui doivent être traités en tant que pétitions et nous avons informé 142 autres plaignants de leur droit à déposer une pétition au Parlement européen . 
FRENCH Dans de nombreux cas , des plaintes conte les autorités nationales , régionales ou locales pourraient être traitées efficacement par un médiateur au sein de l ' État membre concerné . 
FRENCH Il devrait exister , dans chaque État membre , un organisme non judiciaire qui puisse aider les citoyens européens dans des conflits avec l ' administration d ' un État membre qui touchent à leurs droits dans le cadre de la législation de l ' Union européenne . 
FRENCH En tant que défenseur de la subsidiarité , je demeure convaincu que la manière la plus efficace d ' atteindre cet objectif est de développer un réseau de coopération entre ces médiateurs , à l ' instar des organismes tels que les commissions des pétitions . 
FRENCH Nous avons conjointement organisé , avec le médiateur français M. - Stasi , un séminaire pour les médiateurs nationaux et les organismes homologues . 
FRENCH A Paris , en septembre 1999, M. - Perry , le premier vice - président de la commission des pétitions a représenté le Parlement européen . 
FRENCH Un séminaire supplémentaire est prévu à Bruxelles sous la présidence belge du Conseil en 2001, en collaboration avec la Commission et les médiateurs belges fédéraux et régionaux . 
FRENCH Les médiateurs régionaux et organismes homologues ont été invités , l ' année dernière , à une réunion à Florence , à laquelle M. - Gemelli , président de la commission des pétition , a également participé . 
FRENCH Les médiateurs et organismes homologues au sein des États membres ont fait preuve d ' une attitude positive vis - à - vis de la collaboration avec le médiateur européen . 
FRENCH Je crois fermement que la collaboration en termes équitables avec ces derniers produira les meilleurs résultats pour les citoyens européens . 
FRENCH Dès le départ , des doutes importants ont été émis quant au fait que le médiateur européen dispose ou non de suffisamment de pouvoirs en vue de produire de quelconques résultats pour les citoyens . 
FRENCH Ces doutes n ' étaient pas justifiés parce que les institutions et organes de la Communauté ont correctement répondu au travail du médiateur . 
FRENCH Dès l ' abord , ils ont eux - mêmes trouvé une solution à des plaintes dans plus de 180 cas , à la satisfaction des plaignants . 
FRENCH Cela indique un esprit de répondant et de flexibilité supérieur à celui des administrations nationales dont j ' ai eu l ' expérience . 
FRENCH De ces règlements , 62 ont eu lieu l ' année dernière , réduisant de ce fait le champ des solutions à l ' amiable à proposer par le médiateur . 
FRENCH Toutefois , nous avons trouvé une solution à l ' amiable en 1999 .En effet , la Commission et le Conseil se sont accordés sur le fait que le plaignant devrait se voir verser la somme due pour son travail en tant que coordinateur régional pour l ' Union européenne de la surveillance des élections palestiniennes . 
FRENCH Si l ' institution ou l ' organisme concernés ne corrigent pas les actes de mauvaise administration de leur propre chef , l ' arme ultime du médiateur est le projet de recommandation , suivi , si nécessaire , par un rapport spécial au Parlement européen . 
FRENCH Il y a cinq ans , il se trouvait beaucoup de personnes pour dire que les institutions et organismes européens faisaient peu de cas du Parlement européen . 
FRENCH Même si , à l ' époque , ils avaient raison , les choses ont clairement changé depuis le traité d ' Amsterdam et la chute de la Commission Santer . 
FRENCH Nous avons rédigé , en 1999, dix projets de recommandation . 
FRENCH Par deux fois , le médiateur a rédigé un rapport spécial au Parlement européen . 
FRENCH Il y a encore un cas en cours , étant donné qu ' Europol a besoin de temps supplémentaire pour se conformer au projet de recommandation selon lequel il devrait permettre au public un certain accès à des documents . 
FRENCH Je crois que les activités du médiateur européen ont atteint le niveau qu ' on est en droit d ' attendre d ' un nouvel organisme constitué de 25 personnes travaillant au sein d ' un environnement juridique assez complexe . 
FRENCH Nous produisons des résultats en faveur des citoyens européens et c ' est ce qui compte avant tout . 
FRENCH Je voudrais saisir l ' occasion et remercier toutes les institutions et organismes de la Communauté pour une année supplémentaire de collaboration constructive . 
FRENCH Je voudrais , en particulier , adresser mes remerciements à la Commission et à son membre responsable , Mme Loyola de Palacio , pour avoir poursuivi l ' engagement de son prédécesseur en vue d ' une collaboration honnête et constructive avec le médiateur . 
FRENCH Je voudrais également dire que j ' apprécie sincèrement l ' attitude utile et coopérative envers le bureau du médiateur dont a fait preuve la commission des pétitions et en particulier son vice - président , M. - Gemelli . Je voudrais en outre remercier le rapporteur de la commission des pétitions , Mme Thors , pour son important travail à l ' occasion de son rapport exhaustif . 
FRENCH Je vous remercie pour votre attention . 
FRENCH Mes remerciements vont également au secrétariat de la commission , notamment pour les détails statistiques fournis dans le rapport , qui je dois l ' avouer , ne proviennent pas de mon propre travail . 
FRENCH J ' invite instamment les députés qui ne sont pas familiarisés avec la commission des pétitions à lire ces rapports . 
FRENCH Cela pourrait leur être utile dans les services qu ' ils fournissent aux personnes qu ' ils représentent . 
FRENCH Je voudrais également attirer leur attention sur le site web mentionné et créé dans le cadre de l ' initiative " Europe Direct " , qui pourrait fournir des informations utiles et éviter le cas échéant la nécessité de déposer une pétition ou confirmer le fait qu ' elle constitue un moyen approprié . 
FRENCH Ces informations sont de plus en plus nécessaires , à mesure que le public prend conscience de l ' importance et de la pertinence du niveau de l ' Union européenne . 
FRENCH Tout individu , citoyen , résident ou groupe peut déposer une pétition au Parlement s ' il estime que la législation ou les principes communautaires ne sont pas mis en & # x0153 ; uvre correctement , quel que soit le niveau . 
FRENCH L ' année dernière , nous avons reçu 958 pétitions dont 492 ont été considérées comme recevables . 
FRENCH Je n ' en mentionnerai que deux , afin de démontrer l ' éventail des thèmes et l ' efficacité potentielle du mécanisme . 
FRENCH Il y avait le cas d ' une pétitionnaire britannique qui a réussi à faire reconnaître , par les autorités françaises , ses années d ' expérience en tant qu ' enseignante , ce qui affecte probablement ses perspectives salariales et de promotion . 
FRENCH Le deuxième cas a trait à une pétition déposée par un citoyen espagnol membre d ' une association écologique qui a donné lieu à une procédure d ' infraction contre les autorités espagnoles dans le cadre de la directive " habitats " , une cause fréquente de plainte - - la directive , pas les autorités - - , ayant des répercussions nationales durables . 
FRENCH Nous ne pourrions travailler efficacement au sein de cette commission sans le soutien de nombreux fonctionnaires de la Commission qui enquêtent et entament des procédures si nécessaire . 
FRENCH Je souhaite exprimer nos remerciements . 
FRENCH Je sais que nous pourrions fournir un service plus rapide et plus efficace si les États membres pouvaient répondre de manière tout aussi engagée aux demandes d ' information et d ' explication . 
FRENCH Nous traitons actuellement un cas pour lequel il a fallu quatorze mois avant d ' obtenir une réponse à une lettre . 
FRENCH Ce n ' est pas inhabituel . 
FRENCH J ' attirerais l ' attention du Conseil sur les points 8 et 10 du rapport , s ' il était représenté . 
FRENCH L ' objectif de la commission est d ' améliorer la qualité générale de nos mécanismes d ' information de retour . 
FRENCH Certaines de nos idées sont mentionnées dans ce rapport . 
FRENCH D ' autres figureront dans un prochain rapport publié au mois de septembre et rédigé par MM . 
FRENCH Perry et Keßler . Nous proposons , comme nous l ' avons fait l ' année dernière , une banque de données , afin que les pétitionnaires et les députés puissent suivre l ' évolution des rapports et identifier les problèmes . 
FRENCH Nous espérons que les autorités compétentes garderont cela à l ' esprit cette année et se conformeront à la proposition . 
FRENCH Il y a de nombreux points concernant nos relations avec les autres commissions . 
FRENCH Nous leur demandons de faire appel plus souvent à la commission des pétitions en vue d ' exprimer des opinions dans certains domaines faisant l ' objet de préoccupation . 
FRENCH Nous voudrions être associés à la préparation de rapports communs dans des domaines qui font l ' objet de préoccupations particulières tels que l ' environnement , la sécurité sociale , la protection des consommateurs , etc . 
FRENCH Nous souhaiterions également faire usage de l ' expérience des membres de notre commission , acquise grâce à leur travail dans d ' autres commissions du Parlement , en vue d ' établir un système faisant intervenir des rapporteurs pour des thèmes spécifiques . 
FRENCH En tant que commission , nous considérons que les pétitions constituent un outil utile et qui renforce la démocratie dans une institution qui peut parfois sembler lointaine et anonyme . 
FRENCH Nous devons apprécier ce mécanisme et utiliser l ' expérience des personnes que nous représentons , expérience exprimée à travers leurs pétitions , en vue d ' améliorer globalement notre travail . 
FRENCH Je recommande ce rapport à l ' Assemblée . 
FRENCH Le dialogue politique n ' est cependant pas un véritable dialogue si les citoyens ne disposent pas du droit à l ' information et de l ' accès aux documents qu ' ils réclament , si les avis qu ' ils expriment ne sont pas pris en considération , traités et pris au sérieux . 
FRENCH Quel est le rapport avec la mission du médiateur européen - ? 
FRENCH La mission du médiateur est , en vertu des Traités , de mener des enquêtes sur des cas de mauvaise administration au sein des institutions ou organes communautaires . 
FRENCH À la demande du Parlement européen , le médiateur a donné une définition du terme " mauvaise administration " dans le rapport annuel de 1997 . 
FRENCH Celle - ci s ' applique lorsqu ' un organisme public n ' agit pas en conformité avec une règle ou un principe ayant pour lui force de loi . 
FRENCH Les institutions se sont mises d ' accord au cours du précédent mandat du médiateur pour appliquer cette définition , qui constitue maintenant et pour l ' avenir le point de départ des activités du médiateur . 
FRENCH La commission souligne dans le rapport que cette définition approuvée en commun de " mauvaise administration " implique également le droit d ' examiner la manière dont les institutions interprètent le droit communautaire . 
FRENCH Quelle que soit la forme juridique que revêtira la Charte des droits fondamentaux , elle sera en tout cas une expression des traditions constitutionnelles communes des États membres qui , selon l ' article 6 du Traité , doivent être respectées par l ' Union et , par conséquent , par les institutions et les organes . 
FRENCH La commission établit dès lors que le médiateur européen doit assumer un rôle important dans l ' application d ' une future Charte des droits fondamentaux des citoyens . 
FRENCH La commission a également clairement exprimé son soutien pour qu ' une Charte des droits fondamentaux contienne des normes octroyant aux citoyens le droit à une bonne administration au sein de l ' UE . 
FRENCH " Bonne administration " s ' oppose à " mauvaise administration " . 
FRENCH Le droit à une bonne administration , au niveau de la charte des droits des citoyens et du code de bonne conduite administrative dont le Parlement et le médiateur européen font la publicité , implique notamment - : le droit d ' être entendu dans son affaire , le droit de consulter des documents , le droit à une réponse rapide de la part de l ' administration et à une réponse motivée . 
FRENCH Tous ces aspects ont été au centre du travail du médiateur . 
FRENCH Ces droits sont autant de conditions indispensables à une citoyenneté active , qui est nécessaire si l ' UE veut regagner la confiance des citoyens . 
FRENCH Ce sont ces droits qui rendent la citoyenneté active plutôt que passive . 
FRENCH Une bonne administration peut créer les conditions indispensables à une citoyenneté active , tandis qu ' une mauvaise administration peut ébranler les conditions de celle - ci . 
FRENCH Quelles sont les types de plaintes les plus courants adressés au médiateur européen - ? 
FRENCH Les citoyens veulent avoir une bonne administration . 
FRENCH Ils veulent être des citoyens actifs . 
FRENCH Ces conclusions peuvent être tirées du nombre sans cesse croissant de plaintes adressées au médiateur et de ce qu ' elles impliquent . 
FRENCH Il mérite , pour cela , un grand éloge . 
FRENCH Petit à petit , le médiateur européen a développé son travail , & # x0153 ; uvré pour une meilleure administration et obtenu la confiance des citoyens . 
FRENCH Sa collaboration avec les médiateurs nationaux , de même que , par la suite , avec les organes analogues dans les pays candidats , est tout aussi importante . 
FRENCH C ' est un travail sérieux que le Parlement a raison de soutenir . 
FRENCH Cet appui doit se faire via l ' octroi de ressources économiques suffisantes au médiateur pour lui permettre de mener à bien les enquêtes astreignantes qu ' implique le mandat . 
FRENCH Nous devons également veiller dorénavant à soutenir un médiateur , qui soit indépendant dans ses décisions . 
FRENCH Je voudrais adresser un grand merci au médiateur et à son cabinet , ainsi qu ' au secrétariat de la commission des pétitions , qui , nous le savons aujourd ' hui , travaille dans des conditions difficiles . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , la commission des pétitions du Parlement est une assemblée un peu particulière . 
FRENCH Comme les deux oratrices précédentes l ' ont précisé , elle reçoit les plaintes des citoyens européens qui estiment que leur droits ont été bafoués . 
FRENCH En tant que rapporteur pour avis en ce qui concerne le droit de séjour , je voudrais faire quelques remarques par rapport aux problèmes spécifiques dans ce domaine . 
FRENCH La libre circulation des personnes est une des libertés fondamentales que nous a permis d ' atteindre l ' intégration européenne . 
FRENCH Une limitation de la liberté de circulation et du droit de séjour est uniquement admise pour des raisons d ' ordre public , de sécurité et de santé . 
FRENCH Une analyse de la procédure d ' infraction de 1996 - 1999 fait apparaître dans 97 cas un rapport direct entre la pétition et la procédure d ' infraction devant la Cour de justice des Communautés européennes . 
FRENCH C ' est la preuve d ' une attitude négative par rapport au droit de pétition des citoyens et citoyennes européens . 
FRENCH À l ' avenir , le Conseil devrait accorder l ' attention qui s ' impose aux droits des citoyens de l ' Union . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , le droit de pétition et de plainte n ' est pas une invention récente . 
FRENCH Il y a 2 - 000 ans déjà , les pétitionnaires romains pouvaient faire part de leurs inquiétudes à l ' empereur . 
FRENCH Toutefois , ce droit devait constamment être menacé , modifié , limité ou supprimé . 
FRENCH Les pétitionnaires d ' autrefois sont devenus les citoyens européens émancipés d ' aujourd ' hui . 
FRENCH Aucune administration ou institution n ' est infaillible . 
FRENCH Nombre de pétitions laissent apparaître un déséquilibre entre la législation et l ' intégration européenne . 
FRENCH Les pétitions sont de ce fait un baromètre permettant d ' évaluer les relations entre les citoyens et le législateur . Ces pétitions sont multiples . 
FRENCH Une population de hamsters dans une zone industrielle nous préoccupe tout autant que l ' interdiction des implants de silicone ou l ' introduction d ' une taxe sur les poids lourds . 
FRENCH J ' en viens à présent au médiateur . 
FRENCH Mon groupe politique félicite le médiateur pour le travail qu ' il a accompli au cours de l ' année 1999 . 
FRENCH Le mérite de M. Söderman a été et est surtout d ' & # x0153 ; uvrer pour plus de transparence et de publicité au sein de l ' administration européenne . 
FRENCH L ' accès aux documents , non seulement pour les citoyens européens , mais également pour le médiateur , en fait partie . 
FRENCH Même l ' introduction de nouvelles technologies dans les bureaux ne peut constituer une raison empêchant la transparence . 
FRENCH Des réponses fondées à l ' attention des citoyens suscitent la confiance . Le comportement opposé entraîne la méfiance et une augmentation du nombre de plaintes qui doivent être traitées et qui génèrent de nouveaux coûts . 
FRENCH On peut dès lors se réjouir de l ' initiative lancée par le médiateur en faveur d ' un code de bonne conduite administrative . 
FRENCH Le citoyen a le droit fondamental à une administration ouverte , orientée vers les services et responsable , qui est somme toute financée par ses contributions . 
FRENCH J ' estime que l ' indépendance du médiateur européen , en tant qu ' exemple pour l ' introduction des médiateurs nationaux dans les pays candidats et dans mon Land de Thuringe , revêt une importance capitale 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , Monsieur le Médiateur européen , les libéraux et moi - même sommes fiers de voir que notre médiateur est un homme courageux , actif et énergique . 
FRENCH Il est extrêmement important pour nous d ' avoir une personne d ' une telle intégrité , qui ose se battre pour l ' ouverture et la transparence et contre la culture de la manigance , du secret et , malheureusement dans certains cas , de la fraude et de la corruption , également présentes au sein des institutions européennes . 
FRENCH Seule une administration transparente et publique peut recevoir le soutien de ceux qui travaillent ici parmi les hommes politiques et les citoyens que nous représentons . 
FRENCH La ligne adoptée par le médiateur bénéficie d ' un important soutien de la part des citoyens de tous les États membres . 
FRENCH C ' est un fait incontestable et plusieurs rapports scientifiques internationaux montrent qu ' il existe une relation évidente entre un haut degré de transparence et de publicité dans l ' administration et un faible niveau de corruption . 
FRENCH C ' est bien sûr également vrai dans les institutions européennes . 
FRENCH C ' est la raison pour laquelle il est aussi important d ' avoir un médiateur totalement indépendant qui puisse agir de lui - même et sans pression ou intérêt d ' aucune sorte visant à l ' influencer . 
FRENCH Le nombre croissant de plaintes qui parviennent au médiateur souligne l ' utilité de notre médiateur , qui agit réellement dans l ' intérêt des citoyens . 
FRENCH La seule critique que l ' on puisse lui adresser est que l ' institution est malheureusement toujours trop peu connue dans de nombreux États membres et que trop peu de citoyens connaissent ce droit . 
FRENCH C ' est un point sur lequel je voudrais que l ' on se concentre à l ' avenir . 
FRENCH En résumé , le médiateur joue un rôle très important . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , Madame la Commissaire , Monsieur le Médiateur , il est peut - être utile de se rappeler qu ' il y a seulement un an et demi , on discutait dans ce bâtiment de la nécessité d ' une commission des pétitions . 
FRENCH Je suis très heureuse de pouvoir constater que la commission des pétitions a prouvé son utilité , surtout en ce moment où nous voulons renforcer la situation du citoyen de l ' Union européenne . 
FRENCH Je souhaite vraiment que la commission des pétitions réussisse à coopérer efficacement avec les autres commissions pendant l ' année à venir . 
FRENCH Je suis convaincue que nous pourrons rédiger des rapports communs sur les principaux sujets à problèmes . 
FRENCH En ce qui concerne le médiateur , il a vraiment affermi son autorité et son indépendance . 
FRENCH Le nombre croissant des plaintes est la preuve que les citoyens l ' ont " trouvé " . Nous , les membres du Parlement européen , avons souvent pu guider les citoyens vers le médiateur , afin qu ' ils trouvent une solution à leurs problèmes . 
FRENCH À l ' avenir , l ' accès facilité aux documents sera une question qui nous donnera du travail et dans cette matière , nous avons déjà reçu des conseils précieux de la part du médiateur . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , on ne peut dire que très peu de choses en une minute . Mon intervention sera donc synthétique . 
FRENCH Premièrement , je voudrais remercier le rapporteur , Mme Lambert , d ' avoir repris toutes nos propositions au cours du débat . 
FRENCH Voilà pourquoi aucun amendement n ' a été déposé . 
FRENCH Deuxièmement , je voudrais dire qu ' - à l ' - heure actuelle , personne ne doute que la commission des pétitions et le médiateur contribuent considérablement au respect du droit communautaire . 
FRENCH Nous le constatons tous les jours au sein de la commission des pétitions . 
FRENCH En conséquence , comme Mme Hautala , je me réjouis que la commission des pétitions ait survécu aux tentatives visant à la faire disparaître , car celle - ci , outre sa mission en matière de respect du droit communautaire , est la commission qui est la plus proche des citoyens . 
FRENCH C ' - est la commission qui rend les institutions plus visibles auprès des citoyens . 
FRENCH Le plus grand problème est sans doute que la lenteur du processus qui suit la plainte déposée par un citoyen . 
FRENCH Le citoyen , qui a d ' abord dû étudier le droit communautaire pour présenter sa pétition , doit attendre la réponse pendant des mois . 
FRENCH Les pétitions les plus nombreuses sont celles qui portent sur les affaires sociales et l ' environnement , sujets qui suscitent le plus d ' inquiétudes . 
FRENCH Parfois , Monsieur le Président -- et j ' - en termine - , lorsqu ' - on dénonce l ' - expulsion d ' - un citoyen ou la destruction d ' - une zone naturelle , la réponse arrive lorsque le problème ne peut plus être résolu . 
FRENCH L ' accélération du traitement des pétitions est donc un point important , point que Mme Lambert a repris . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , les députés radicaux de la liste Bonino soutiendront les deux rapports , tout comme ils apprécient et approuvent le travail du médiateur . 
FRENCH Nous voudrions toutefois poser une question précise et ponctuelle au médiateur sur le fait qu ' il n ' est pas encore possible de porter plainte en utilisant la signature électronique . 
FRENCH Ce problème concerne selon nous toutes les institutions , notamment pour ce qui est du travail au sein du Parlement , mais aussi parce que l ' intérêt du médiateur est que l ' on accorde la plus grande attention possible à son travail . De notre côté , nous pensons qu ' en ce qui concerne le médiateur , la signature électronique peut constituer la première étape de l ' introduction de cet instrument au sein de nos institutions . 
FRENCH Je voudrais seulement revenir sur un passage essentiel qui a été sous - estimé . 
FRENCH Soixante - dix - sept pour cent des plaintes recevables visent la Commission . 
FRENCH Le médiateur nous a dit que la Commission n ' avait accompli aucun progrès cette année dans le domaine de la transparence , la transparence qui est un instrument efficace contre la fraude et la corruption . 
FRENCH En particulier , le président Prodi s ' était engagé le 7 décembre 1999 à trouver et à proposer des solutions juridiques et organisationnelles pour assurer aux candidats aux concours , tant internes qu ' externes , de la Commission la possibilité d ' accéder aux copies d ' épreuves corrigées . 
FRENCH Nous voudrions que le médiateur nous dise , comme il nous a rappelé qu ' Europol avait encore besoin de temps , si la promesse formulée le 7 décembre dernier par le président Prodi d ' assurer l ' accès aux copies d ' épreuves corrigées avant le 1er juillet 2000 s ' est déjà concrétisée . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , chers collègues , à la lecture du rapport annuel du médiateur , je peux conclure que le manque de transparence suffisante constitue la raison la plus importante des plaintes introduites par les citoyens -- on l ' a déjà dit . 
FRENCH Tous les intervenants ne semblent pourtant pas avoir conscience de ce problème . 
FRENCH La Commission a déposé une proposition de règlement relative à l ' accès public aux documents , dont vous avez à juste titre , M. Söderman , critiqué ouvertement les insuffisances . 
FRENCH Nous avons pu lire certaines choses à ce sujet . 
FRENCH Pour se faire une idée de l ' esprit dont est empreint cette proposition , il suffit de lire les déclarations faites par le comité consultatif des experts indépendants . 
FRENCH Selon le deuxième rapport des experts -- je cite - : " la Commission a besoin d ' " espace " pour réfléchir à la définition de sa politique avant que celle - ci n ' entre dans le domaine public , précisément parce que la politique faite sous les feux de la publicité et " en direct " est souvent de piètre qualité " . 
FRENCH En tant que représentante de l ' opinion publique , cette approche des questions de transparence et de politique m ' est dans l ' ensemble inacceptable . 
FRENCH C ' est la raison pour laquelle j ' apporte mon soutien aux critiques fondées que vous avez formulées , Monsieur Söderman - ! 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , je voudrais , à mon tour , féliciter et remercier le médiateur pour le rapport qu ' il a présenté cette année , ainsi que Mme Thors et Mme - Lambert pour leurs rapports au Parlement . 
FRENCH Tous ces rapports , en particulier celui du médiateur , illustrent le travail très fiable et sérieux qui a été accompli au cours de cette année . 
FRENCH Nul doute que les citoyens européens ont besoin d ' une personne vers qui se tourner s ' ils rencontrent des problèmes avec l ' administration et , en la personne de M. - Söderman , je sais que nous disposons d ' un médiateur sur lequel nous pouvons compter . 
FRENCH J ' en ai été le témoin lorsque j ' ai participé au séminaire à Paris . 
FRENCH Il était très agréable de constater à quel point le médiateur européen était estimé par ses collègues , les médiateurs nationaux . 
FRENCH De ce côté de l ' Assemblée , nous croyons certainement que le médiateur devrait disposer de tous les pouvoirs dont il a besoin pour s ' acquitter de ses responsabilités . 
FRENCH En ce qui concerne l ' accès aux documents , il se trouve que nous pensons que le point de vue de la commission des affaires constitutionnelles est important , mais il ne faudrait pas comprendre que nous ayons un quelconque doute quant au principe selon lequel le médiateur doit avoir accès aux documents . 
FRENCH Nous le soutenons pleinement en la matière . 
FRENCH Il est surprenant de constater que , l ' année dernière , la commission des pétitions était quelque peu menacée et le rapport de Mme - Lambert montre l ' excellent travail accompli par la commission des pétitions . 
FRENCH Avec M. - Gemelli , notre président , nous examinons maintenant des mesures en vue de rendre la commission des pétitions plus utile et plus efficace dans le travail qu ' elle effectue au nom des citoyens . 
FRENCH Une des choses importantes que nous présenterons au Parlement est un code de bonne conduite administrative . 
FRENCH Il est important que les citoyens et les fonctionnaires sachent ce que conduite raisonnable signifie , afin que tous puissent disposer d ' une norme de référence . 
FRENCH Je voudrais également remercier la Commission pour le soutien que nous avons reçu en commission des pétitions , soutien d ' excellente qualité et très efficace tout au long de l ' année . 
FRENCH J ' espère que sous la présidence française nous obtiendrons le même soutien de la part du Conseil , lequel a malheureusement fait défaut par le passé . 
FRENCH En étendant toujours davantage ses actions à de nouveaux cycles d ' - activités , lesquelles couvrent déjà un large éventail des intérêts de chaque citoyen , l ' - Union européenne se métamorphose en un léviathan moderne , amenant avec lui tous les actes arbitraires inévitablement liés à tout mécanisme administratif et qui , vus sous certains angles , tendent à devenir plus dangereux que les actes correspondants des services nationaux des États . 
FRENCH Et cela , parce que les mécanismes de contrôle n ' - ont pas suivi l ' - évolution de ces activités . 
FRENCH Il y a trois moyens de faire obstacle aux dangers impliqués par le vaste mécanisme administratif de l ' - Union européenne . 
FRENCH L ' - un d ' - eux est l ' - intervention plus directe et plus fréquente du Parlement européen dans le contrôle des activités spécifiques des organes de l ' - Union européenne . 
FRENCH À cet égard , il faut donner suite aux propositions du rapporteur , Mme Thors , qui demande à la Commission d ' - inclure , dans le rapport annuel relatif au droit communautaire , un chapitre consacré à l ' - examen des pétitions et des plaintes , ainsi qu ' - à sa proposition de conclure un accord interinstitutionnel qui facilitera l ' examen plus rapide des pétitions . 
FRENCH Pour élargir le sens de ces deux propositions , je dirais que le Parlement européen doit , à l ' - avenir , consacrer plus de temps à ces questions , qui sont , d ' - ailleurs , tout aussi importantes pour lui , puisqu ' - il ferait avancer son droit de revendiquer la codécision avec le Conseil . 
FRENCH Plus généralement , il est temps d ' - asseoir l ' - exercice du contrôle parlementaire sur une nouvelle base . 
FRENCH Le deuxième moyen est l ' - institutionnalisation de la Charte européenne des droits fondamentaux , laquelle aura force obligatoire et assurera les droits qui permettront directement aux citoyens européens d ' - exiger non seulement des droits de procédure , mais aussi des droits relatifs au contenu , qui protégeront à juste titre leurs intérêts et se transformeront en droit de dédommagement en cas d ' - atteinte aux intérêts . 
FRENCH La perspective manifeste de l ' - élaboration d ' - une Charte de caractère simplement déclaratif ne manquera pas de porter un coup à la crédibilité de l ' - Union européenne qui , alors qu ' - elle considère , dans un flot de paroles , la transparence dans le fonctionnement de ses organes comme l ' - un des objectifs fondamentaux de sa politique et l ' - approche du citoyen européen comme un élément nécessaire à l ' - intégration , s ' - abstient de reconnaître ce mécanisme élémentaire , indispensable pour atteindre ces objectifs . 
FRENCH Enfin , le troisième moyen est le renforcement et l ' - amélioration du rôle du médiateur , notamment en lui facilitant l ' - accès à tous les documents qui rendent plus efficace le déroulement des enquêtes . 
FRENCH Parallèlement , la richesse du contenu de son rapport devra faire l ' - objet d ' - une étude scrupuleuse et constituer un point de départ pour les indispensables réformes du fonctionnement des organes communautaires . 
FRENCH Je souhaite bon courage au médiateur dans la poursuite de sa tâche . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , je voudrais avant toute chose remercier le médiateur européen , M. - Söderman , les deux rapporteurs , Mmes - Lambert et Thors , tous les collègues de la commission des pétitions et le Bureau . 
FRENCH Nous basons notre réflexion sur la conviction que les institutions représentent un instrument au service des citoyens et , partant , la violation présumée des droits des citoyens débouche sur une crise de confiance envers les institutions . 
FRENCH Aujourd ' hui , je pense que nous devons créer un contexte juridique global , harmonieux et fonctionnel et donc créer les instruments juridictionnels . La Charte des droits de l ' homme , un corpus juris instituant un droit pénal , un droit civil et un droit administratif , les procédures d ' accord sur la reconnaissance mutuelle des arrêts des États membres , EUROPOL et les accords sectoriels , l ' OLAF en tant qu ' instrument de détection des infractions , la probable nomination d ' un Procureur européen qui devrait être le bureau d ' enquête de la Cour de justice , la distinction entre l ' exercice du pouvoir d ' enquête et du pouvoir de jugement , le profil des responsabilités pénales , civiles et administratives , voilà autant d ' instruments qui font progresser l ' Union européenne . 
FRENCH L ' accord - cadre d ' hier pose un jalon dans cette direction . 
FRENCH Nous voudrions demander une dernière chose , à savoir que la commission des pétitions puisse donner en procédure de codécision , en tant que Parlement , l ' interprétation authentique de certaines de ses décisions , ainsi que la modification des Traités dans le sens de la rationalisation de l ' ensemble du système juridique et juridictionnel et des instruments en vigueur . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , Monsieur le Médiateur , Madame la Commissaire , chers collègues , je remercie les rapporteurs pour leur travail très approfondi et sérieux . 
FRENCH Je propose sept principes . 
FRENCH Plus une union est grande , plus grand est aussi le besoin de transparence . 
FRENCH Plus elle sera multiculturelle , meilleure sera la transparence et plus elle sera démocratique , plus elle sera ouverte . 
FRENCH Nous avons l ' habitude que tous les appareils soient accompagnés de d ' emploi , même les fouets de cuisine . 
FRENCH Les principes de la bonne administration , créés avec mérite par le médiateur , constitue le mode d ' emploi de la bureaucratie européenne à l ' intention des citoyens . 
FRENCH Et il est bien vrai que ce mode d ' emploi est utile - ! 
FRENCH Il n ' y a pas de démocratie sans une bonne administration et pour cela , il faut vraiment inclure les principes de la bonne administration à l ' acte fondamental de l ' Union . 
FRENCH Encore une chose importante - : dans la société de l ' information , il faut porter la transparence des dossiers et les principes qui les gouvernent à un niveau digne d ' elle grâce aux nouvelles techniques . Autrement dit , il faut pouvoir déposer plainte sur l ' Internet . 
FRENCH Les décisions préalables et les documents afférents doivent aussi être disponibles en temps réel . Ma proposition est que nous avons besoin d ' un portail du médiateur à l ' Internet . 
FRENCH Merci pour votre travail - ! 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , en tant que membre de la commission des pétitions , je tiens à féliciter tout particulièrement ma collègue , Mme Lambert , pour son excellent rapport et je remercie la Commission européenne pour son aide précieuse au traitement des pétitions que nous recevons . 
FRENCH La pétition est un droit reconnu aux citoyens européens et aux résidents de l ' Union , leur permettant de faire prévaloir les droits que leur reconnaissent les traités . 
FRENCH Or , peu de citoyens ont conscience de la possibilité de déposer une pétition . 
FRENCH Les dossiers que nous traitons font d ' ailleurs ressortir une méconnaissance des droits que confère la citoyenneté européenne . 
FRENCH Cela se traduit malheureusement par 50 - % de pétitions irrecevables . 
FRENCH Les pétitions qui sont recevables soulèvent particulièrement les problèmes de liberté de circulation , d ' établissement , de prestations de services , de prestations sociales , de reconnaissance de diplômes et de qualifications , et de fiscalité . 
FRENCH En outre , nous sommes saisis de plus en plus par des pétitions collectives , portant sur des sujets liés à l ' environnement , et avec l ' extension des compétences de l ' Union , il est envisageable que le nombre de ces pétitions et des domaines traités augmentera . 
FRENCH Pour répondre aux attentes des citoyens , il est nécessaire qu ' il y ait une bonne cohésion entre la commission des pétitions , les institutions européennes et les administrations nationales . 
FRENCH Une meilleure prise en compte du travail de notre commission par les autres commissions parlementaires est aussi nécessaire . 
FRENCH Il est préjudiciable au bon traitement des pétitions que le Conseil soit chroniquement absent aux réunions de notre commission . 
FRENCH En effet , les administrations nationales sont les premières à appliquer le droit communautaire et il est indispensable qu ' elles travaillent en cohérence avec les institutions européennes , et notamment le Parlement et la Commission . 
FRENCH Nous attendons trop longtemps les réponses des administrations nationales , parfois même pendant plusieurs années . 
FRENCH Nous avons pleinement conscience de l ' ampleur de la tâche et des difficultés à surmonter . 
FRENCH Tout d ' abord , il est indéniable qu ' il existe un manque de notoriété de cette commission , alors que son travail est indispensable pour resserrer le lien entre citoyens et Union européenne . 
FRENCH En outre , il faut renforcer les structures et les moyens de cette commission pour améliorer son efficacité , et une relation plus étroite avec les commissions des pétitions des parlements nationaux est souhaitable . 
FRENCH Enfin , une Europe plus proche des citoyens est un des points forts du programme de la présidence française . 
FRENCH Le travail de notre commission rentre dans ce cadre et il nous appartient de concrétiser cette attente . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , je voudrais souhaiter la bienvenue ce matin à M. Söderman et féliciter Mme Lambert et Mme Thors pour leurs rapports . 
FRENCH La réalité de nos société est telle que si on laissait faire les gouvernements et les administrations , ils ne nommeraient jamais de commissions des pétitions ou de médiateurs . 
FRENCH Par nature , ils tendent au secret . 
FRENCH Dès lors , il est important que nous continuions d ' exiger que des ressources adéquates soient affectés au bureau du médiateur et à la commission des pétitions du Parlement . 
FRENCH Une manière d ' étouffer l ' efficacité du bureau du médiateur et de la commission des pétitions est de leur refuser des ressources adéquates . 
FRENCH Il est scandaleux qu ' au sein du Parlement , la commission des pétitions , l ' unique et le plus important contact direct dont le citoyen dispose avec cette institution et avec les autres institutions de l ' Union européenne , soit traitée de la sorte . 
FRENCH Elle ne dispose pas d ' assistance adéquate en matière de secrétariat . 
FRENCH Elle est traité de manière abominable en ce qui concerne les traductions , qui occupent le bas de la liste . 
FRENCH Cela ne suffit tout simplement pas . 
FRENCH J ' en appellerais à la Commission et au Conseil s ' ils étaient représentés - - ils ignorent la commission des pétitions , ainsi que le Parlement - - afin qu ' ils fournissent les ressources nécessaires au travail de ces organismes . 
FRENCH La commission des pétitions constitue , en particulier , un important mécanisme d ' accès pour les Européens . 
FRENCH Il est important que nous fassions en sorte qu ' elle accomplisse son travail efficacement . 
FRENCH En particulier , les citoyens sont préoccupés par le fait que les études d ' impact sur l ' environnement , requises dans le cadre de la législation de l ' UE , sont traitées comme si elles n ' avaient pas plus de valeur que le papier sur lequel elles sont écrites . 
FRENCH Soit elles sont ignorées , soit elles n ' aborde pas les véritables problèmes . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , je voudrais féliciter personnellement Jacob Söderman pour l ' excellent travail réalisé , qui a conduit à sa réélection le 27 octobre de l ' année dernière . 
FRENCH Je voudrais par la même occasion féliciter le médiateur pour son rapport annuel très facile à lire et en même temps complet . 
FRENCH Il ressort du rapport que la Commission , avec près de 77 pour cent des cas , fait l ' objet de la plupart des enquêtes qui ont été réalisées , . 
FRENCH Cela tient sans doute avant tout au fait que la Commission est l ' institution qui prend la plupart des décisions en rapport direct avec les citoyens . 
FRENCH Dans le rapport relatif aux plaintes individuelles , il apparaît cependant que la transparence est insuffisante . 
FRENCH La raison la plus souvent invoquée dans les plaintes était également l ' insuffisance et la manque d ' informations . 
FRENCH La transparence est essentielle pour que les citoyens aient plus de chances d ' influencer le fonctionnement de l ' UE et aussi de mettre un terme aux tendances à la corruption , à la fraude et à l ' abus de confiance . 
FRENCH On court toutefois le risque , comme le souligne également le rapport annuel du médiateur , que la portée d ' un tel code varie auprès des différents organes et institutions . 
FRENCH Je voudrais terminer par quelques questions - : Quelles sont les conséquences d ' une Charte des droits fondamentaux sur le travail du médiateur - ? 
FRENCH Les ressources sont - elles suffisantes pour que le travail soit bien fait - ? 
FRENCH Quelles sont les principales raisons des déficiences des institutions dans leurs relations avec les citoyens - ? 
FRENCH La volonté fait - elle défaut , les ressources sont - elles insuffisantes ou a - t - on une bureaucratie inadaptée qui empêche et retarde le traitement des affaires - ? 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , sur la base des rapports du médiateur et de Mme - Thors , on peut constater que l ' Institution " Médiateur " a consolidé sa position . 
FRENCH La commission applaudit le travail accompli par M. - Jacob Söderman et se félicite que les citoyens l ' aient " trouvé " . 
FRENCH Les piliers de base du travail du médiateur sont l ' indépendance et la transparence . 
FRENCH Il est tout aussi juste de souligner l ' importance de la bonne gouvernance pour les citoyens et pour la légitimité de l ' UE aux yeux des citoyens . 
FRENCH Il est bon que la commission soutienne le médiateur dans ses efforts de mettre en & # x0153 ; uvre un règlement en la matière . 
FRENCH Le principe de la bonne gouvernance sera également inscrit à la charte des droits fondamentaux de l ' UE qui est en train de se préparer . 
FRENCH Le rapport révèle qu ' environ trente pour cent seulement des plaintes adressées au médiateur entrent dans ses compétences . 
FRENCH Il faut donc continuer à développer la coopération entre le médiateur européen et les médiateurs nationaux et régionaux . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , Mesdames et Messieurs les Députés , je suis heureuse de participer aujourd ' - hui à ce débat avec M. Söderman , médiateur , dont le travail au service des citoyens de l ' - Union est essentiel . 
FRENCH La Commission l ' - apprécie donc de manière très positive . 
FRENCH Je veux dire que la Commission estime que le citoyen doit toujours être au centre de nos préoccupations . 
FRENCH C ' - est en effet le citoyen qui est le destinataire ultime de toutes nos activités et notre raison d ' - être . 
FRENCH En ce sens , la commission des pétitions et le médiateur jouent un rôle clé , à différents niveaux , avec des effets différents , mais essentiel pour l ' - amélioration du fonctionnement des institutions . 
FRENCH La commission des pétitions s ' - occupe des préoccupations concrètes des citoyens et , en ce sens , comme le signale Mme Lambert -- que je félicite sincèrement pour son rapport - , les pétitions présentées au Parlement illustrent les problèmes des citoyens face aux administrations européennes et souvent nationales tout en mettant l ' - accent sur les lacunes législatives existant au niveau européen et national . 
FRENCH Le médiateur , pour sa part , comme l ' - indique Mme Thors -- que je tiens également à féliciter sincèrement pour son rapport - , s ' occupe des plaintes contre les institutions et organes de l ' - Union quant aux déficiences de leurs administrations . 
FRENCH Il nous incite à améliorer la gestion et la qualité des services en nous signalant les points faibles , les points qui doivent être améliorés , qui doivent faire l ' - objet d ' une plus grande attention . 
FRENCH Mais les premiers à vouloir une administration plus efficace et plus transparente étant précisément les responsables de ces administrations , les critiques quant à nos défauts sont les bienvenues . 
FRENCH Ce n ' - est qu ' - en connaissant les défauts que l ' - on peut y remédier . 
FRENCH D ' - où , j ' - insiste , l ' - importance que nous accordons , en vue du bon fonctionnement des institutions , au travail du médiateur et de la commission des pétitions . 
FRENCH Quant au rapport de Mme Lambert , je voudrais aborder deux points concrets . 
FRENCH L ' - un porte sur la coopération entre les institutions , indispensable pour améliorer le fonctionnement de la commission des pétitions et sa capacité d ' - action . 
FRENCH À cet égard , je voudrais exprimer ma satisfaction , car le rapport souligne le rôle constructif de la Commission dans l ' - examen des pétitions et parce qu ' - il le considère globalement satisfaisant . 
FRENCH En quelque sorte , elle nous accorde une note satisfaisante , et je l ' - en remercie , mais nous essayerons de nous améliorer . 
FRENCH Eh bien , permettez - moi de vous dire que je trouve excellente l ' - idée de regrouper l ' - examen des pétitions par sujets , de confier à des rapporteurs spécialisés la tâche d ' - examiner ces pétitions avec plus d ' - attention et éventuellement de tirer des conclusions permettant de corriger les déficiences , prendre des décisions pour résoudre d ' - éventuelles lacunes dans les textes législatifs , ou de contrecarrer les effets non désirables desdits textes . 
FRENCH La Commission est également disposée à envisager une révision de l ' - accord interinstitutionnel sur le traitement des pétitions modifiant celui qui est actuellement en vigueur , depuis 1989, avec le Parlement et le Conseil , surtout dans un domaine qui me semble essentiel , et qui a été signalé par l ' - un des intervenants , à savoir , le problème des délais de réponse . 
FRENCH Certes , nous mettons parfois beaucoup de temps pour répondre . 
FRENCH Ce n ' - est pas toujours de la faute de la Commission , nous dépendons parfois des réponses des administrations nationales , mais il est vrai que dans ce domaine , nous devons faire un effort pour nous améliorer et pour être à même de contribuer de manière plus satisfaisante encore au travail de cette commission . 
FRENCH À cet égard , je tiens à souligner l ' - importance de la collaboration avec d ' - autres administrations , collaboration que nous voulons améliorer au maximum . 
FRENCH La Commission est ouverte au dialogue avec le Parlement et le Conseil afin d ' améliorer les délais des réponses et augmenter la transparence et la communication avec le Parlement et la commission des pétitions . 
FRENCH Je voudrais aussi dire que nous acceptons la définition selon laquelle il y a mauvaise administration lorsqu ' un organisme public n ' - agit pas en conformité avec une règle ou un principe ayant pour lui force obligatoire . 
FRENCH Toutefois , je tiens à préciser que , comme l ' - a très bien signalé M. Söderman , le médiateur est un organe non judiciaire . Dès lors , il ne peut en aucun cas se substituer aux organes judiciaires . 
FRENCH Ses tâches sont différentes de celles de la Cour de justice . 
FRENCH Je pense qu ' - il est très important , dans les relations entre Commission , médiateur et autres institutions et organes , de respecter systématiquement l ' - équilibre institutionnel stipulé dans les Traités . 
FRENCH En ce sens , il est vrai que la réalité , de plus en plus importante , de l ' - institution du médiateur , qui est à certains égards une institution plus jeune que d ' - autres dans le dispositif institutionnel européen , a besoin d ' un certain temps de maturation pour que les citoyens la connaissent . 
FRENCH Le médiateur signale dans son rapport que l ' année dernière , les plaintes et les enquêtes ont considérablement augmenté , ce qui est simplement dû au fait que les citoyens connaissent mieux cette institution . 
FRENCH Mesdames et Messieurs , je voudrais très brièvement signaler que ces institutions sont bonnes car toute action d ' - une administration peut à un moment donné manquer de transparence et d ' - efficacité , porter atteinte aux droits fondamentaux ou encore être minée par la corruption . 
FRENCH Mais je voudrais vous dire , Mesdames et Messieurs , que l ' - on ne peut en aucun cas présenter l ' - administration communautaire comme étant particulièrement minée par ces défauts . 
FRENCH Si on la compare avec d ' - autres administrations , je pense qu ' - elle supporte très bien la comparaison et qu ' - elle mérite même une bonne note dans ces domaines . 
FRENCH Mesdames et Messieurs , pour terminer je voudrais féliciter à nouveau le médiateur , M. Söderman , de son travail , de plus en plus important , de ses actions , de plus en plus nombreuses et de sa collaboration , parfois critique , mais , comme l ' assume la Commission , telle est sa tâche et sa fonction . 
FRENCH La rédaction d ' - un code de conduite applicable aux relations des fonctionnaires communautaires avec les citoyens est une priorité , et M. Kinnock et la Commission en général & # x0153 ; uvrent dans ce sens . 
FRENCH Quant aux modifications du statut du médiateur , c ' - est la commission parlementaire compétente qui doit le cas échéant rendre une décision , conformément à l ' - article 195 du Traité , et lorsque le Parlement prendra l ' - initiative , nous analyserons toutes les questions pertinentes . 
FRENCH Mesdames et Messieurs , je voudrais encore féliciter les deux rapporteurs et , bien entendu , M. - Söderman de l ' excellent travail qu ' il réalise avec rigueur et indépendance . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , je vous remercie de m ' avoir donné la parole pour répondre aux questions . 
FRENCH Depuis quelques années , il est possible d ' envoyer des courriers électroniques au bureau du médiateur , depuis que M. - Dell ' Alba nous en a fait reconnaître l ' importance . 
FRENCH Actuellement , environ 20 - % des plaintes nous arrivent par courrier électronique . 
FRENCH Si vous consultez notre site web , vous trouverez un formulaire qui peut être envoyé immédiatement par courrier électronique . 
FRENCH M. - Paasilinna a déclaré que le site web pouvait être développé dans cette direction . 
FRENCH Nous disposons déjà d ' un accès direct à tous les sites web des médiateurs nationaux ou régionaux , mais cela pourrait davantage se développer . 
FRENCH M. - Raschhofer a mentionné le projet de règlement sur l ' accès public aux document dont on a débattu . 
FRENCH Je voudrais souligner le fait que ce projet de règlement est à présent présenté au Parlement . 
FRENCH Le travail en commission peut commencer . 
FRENCH Lors des discussions que j ' ai menées avec M. - Prodi , celui - ci m ' a indiqué qu ' il était prêt à envisager favorablement toute proposition bien fondée en vue d ' améliorer ce règlement . 
FRENCH Ce projet est à présent à l ' examen devant le Parlement . 
FRENCH M. - Malmström a mentionné la méconnaissance du bureau du médiateur au sein des États membres . 
FRENCH La difficulté que nous avons rencontrée a été que , si nous faisons trop de publicité pour nous - mêmes , nous recevons trop de plaintes dépassant le cadre de notre mandat . 
FRENCH Nous essayons dès lors d ' identifier les citoyens qui rencontrent des problèmes avec l ' administration et qui pourraient avoir des raisons de se plaindre . 
FRENCH Les députés du Parlement constituent une source très importante d ' informations pour bon nombre de citoyens . 
FRENCH Je serais très heureux si vous pouviez contribuer à faire en sorte que les possibilités de déposer des pétitions et des plaintes soient mieux connues des citoyens . 
FRENCH Merci , Monsieur Söderman . 
FRENCH Le débat est clos . 
FRENCH Le vote aura lieu aujourd ' - hui à 12 heures . 
FRENCH Ciel unique européen 
FRENCH L ' - ordre du jour appelle le rapport ( A5 - 0141 / 00 ) de M. Atkins , au nom de la commission de la politique régionale , des transports et du tourisme , sur la communication de la Commission au Conseil et au Parlement européen relative à la création du ciel unique européen [ COM ( 1999 ) 614 -- C5 - 0085 / 2000 -- 2000 / 2053 ( COS ) ] . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , nous nous réunissons à un moment où la congestion dans nos cieux n ' a jamais été aussi grande . 
FRENCH Selon les statistiques , la fréquence des retards de 15 minute a augmenté de 12,7 - % en 1991 à 30,3 - % en 1999 et continue à augmenter . 
FRENCH Nous nous préoccupons non seulement des effets de la congestion en termes de désagrément , ainsi que des implications sur la stabilité de notre Union , mais nous nous faisons avant tout du souci à propos des menaces pour la sécurité qui en résultent . 
FRENCH Il est un fait qu ' il y a une pénurie de contrôleurs aériens . 
FRENCH Il est un fait qu ' il y a eu un manque d ' investissement dans les systèmes de contrôle du trafic aérien . 
FRENCH Le fait que la demande de transports aériens s ' accroît pour ainsi dire chaque jour , en raison des tarifs réduits , du désir de voyager à l ' étranger pour les vacances et les affaires ou même parce qu ' il est possible de prendre quelques jours de pause à un jet de pierre , a augmenté la pression à laquelle est soumis le trafic aérien . 
FRENCH Tandis que cette pression s ' accroît , nous nous devons de féliciter ceux qui travaillent dans le système et les remercier pour ce qu ' ils ont accompli . 
FRENCH Malheureusement - - et ce n ' est pas entièrement de leur faute - - , ils n ' arrivent pas à faire face aux pressions aussi bien que nous l ' aurions souhaité - : nous en avons tous fait l ' expérience il y a peu de temps à peine , à cause des retards dus à la grève en France . 
FRENCH Dès lors , tout cela a un impact négatif sur la mobilité de nos citoyens et sur les coûts économiques , financiers et sociaux supportés par nos entreprises et un grand nombre d ' autres personnes affectés quotidiennement par les événement . 
FRENCH La Commission a apporté une contribution majeure au traitement de la saturation de l ' espace aérien . 
FRENCH Le Conseil des ministres des Transports doit prendre une décision politique en vue d ' aborder ce problème . 
FRENCH Nous ne pouvons la repousser plus longtemps . 
FRENCH C ' est maintenant qu ' il faut lui accorder notre attention . 
FRENCH Nous avons besoin d ' un ciel unique couvrant un marché unique , mais , en même temps , nous devons reconnaître le fait que des États nations particuliers ont une opinion sur la manière dont ces thèmes doivent être abordés , en particulier dans la mesure où ceux - ci ont des répercussions sur le revenu des effectifs , ainsi que sur l ' utilisation de l ' espace aérien national à des fins militaires . 
FRENCH Nous devons également aborder la question posée par l ' espace aérien militaire et les abus qui s ' y rapportent dans certains pays et ce , non seulement en ce qui concerne l ' espace occupé par les avions militaires mais également l ' occupation abusive des couloirs aériens civils par des avions militaires qui ne se conforment par aux procédures aériennes civiles . 
FRENCH Ce domaine doit également être abordé . 
FRENCH Dans ce rapport , j ' ai avancé une suggestion - - que la commission a largement acceptée - - selon laquelle Eurocontrol devrait être un organisme de régulation , détenant davantage de pouvoir et appliquant des sanctions plus efficaces . En outre , les parties lésées pourraient utiliser le droit d ' appel contre Eurocontrol . 
FRENCH De même , nous estimons que l ' offre de services relatifs au trafic aérien devrait être ouverte à la libéralisation et sujette aux décisions que chaque pays particulier considère comme appropriées . 
FRENCH Comme les députés le savent peut - être , au Royaume - Uni , nous avons abordé la question en introduisant le principe de libéralisation . 
FRENCH Cela peut s ' avérer judicieux pour nous . 
FRENCH Cela peut être malheureux pour d ' autres . 
FRENCH La décision revient à chaque État membres , mais ils doivent décider de s ' attaquer au problème de la division entre , d ' une part , la réglementation de l ' espace aérien et , d ' autre part , la gestion de services aériens qui pourraient être effectuée par d ' autres ou d ' autres organisations . 
FRENCH Nous croyons fermement qu ' il devrait exister des critères objectifs et indépendants sur la manière dont le système est géré , critères assortis d ' incitants pour ceux qui remplissent les exigences requises et de sanctions pour ceux qui n ' ont pas atteint les niveaux demandés . 
FRENCH Nous pensons que les passagers doivent être dédommagés en cas de retards injustifiés et que leurs droits en pareil cas devraient être clairement définis et reconnus . 
FRENCH Mais , par dessus tout , nous souhaitons que la commissaire de Palacio - - avec notre soutien - - presse le Conseil de ministres et tous les acteurs de ce dossier de prendre des décisions urgentes . 
FRENCH Si le secteur doit formuler une critique globale du rapport , c ' est , peut - être , qu ' il ne va pas assez loin ou pas assez vite . 
FRENCH Cela ne peut plus durer . 
FRENCH C ' est maintenant que nous devons aborder ce dossier . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , je voudrais , si vous le permettez , vous livrer très brièvement les quelques observations que m ' inspire ce rapport . 
FRENCH Il paraît évident que l ' organisation du contrôle aérien dans le ciel européen doit être entièrement repensée . 
FRENCH En ce sens , l ' initiative de la Commission est louable . 
FRENCH Qu ' elle doive être repensée est une chose , que tout doive être mis à plat est une évidence également , mais je pense qu ' il faut se méfier d ' un certain nombre d ' idées reçues que l ' on retrouve au gré des rapports , des communications et des interventions sur ce sujet . 
FRENCH Que le morcellement politique du ciel européen ne corresponde plus aux exigences techniques et aux exigences du marché paraît également être une évidence . 
FRENCH J ' ai été extrêmement surpris d ' apprendre que dans l ' Europe d ' aujourd ' hui , ce sont encore essentiellement les frontières politiques qui prévalent en matière d ' organisation du contrôle aérien . 
FRENCH Un espace européen du contrôle aérien doit être créé . Cet espace doit - il cependant être totalement unifié et selon quels critères - ? 
FRENCH Je m ' interroge beaucoup sur les conclusions du rapport . 
FRENCH Il me paraît évident que le morcellement du contrôle aérien comporte un certain nombre d ' avantages . En effet , le contrôle aérien suppose un maillage du territoire et les limites de sécurité technique , mais également les limites humaines supposent que chaque contrôleur , chaque poste de contrôle puisse avoir un territoire limité et un nombre limité de vols à suivre . 
FRENCH En ce sens , l ' organisation cellulaire maillée du territoire européen doit être conservée et d ' une certaine façon enrichie . 
FRENCH Je suis donc favorable à une multiplication des centres de contrôle dès lors qu ' intervient , non pas l ' unification de tout le contrôle , mais l ' unification du système juridique et également l ' unification technologique , car ce rapport , et l ' instruction de ce rapport ont mis en lumière l ' absence de volonté européenne.. . 
FRENCH ( Le président retire la parole à l ' orateur ) 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , Madame la Vice - présidente , chers collègues , je voudrais tout d ' abord remercier mon collègue Robert Atkins pour l ' excellent rapport qu ' il a rédigé . 
FRENCH Il s ' est donné beaucoup de peine , non seulement pour commenter les propositions de la Commission , mais également pour mettre en évidence les lignes directrices . 
FRENCH Le grand axe de séparation des fonctions de régulation et d ' exécution me semble tout à fait justifié . 
FRENCH Les points 4 et 5 rappellent que le Parlement a déjà décidé à deux reprises de confier la fonction de régulation à l ' Union européenne . 
FRENCH C ' est la raison pour laquelle je reviens sur les propos du dernier orateur . 
FRENCH Il convient bien sûr de distinguer le fait que nous disposons de plusieurs sociétés de services dans le domaine opérationnel , mais la fonction de régulation doit rester au niveau européen , voire lui être confiée dans une plus large mesure . 
FRENCH Cela ne pose absolument aucun problème . 
FRENCH L ' Union européenne compte aujourd ' hui 15 États membres . Douze États ont demandé de pouvoir y adhérer . 
FRENCH Si l ' on opère déjà selon le système EEE -- on établit les règles communes et on consulte les États candidats à l ' adhésion - , on peut alors les y intégrer . 
FRENCH C ' est la raison pour laquelle je trouve tout à fait approprié le fait que la Commission européenne doive à présent représenter les intérêts des États membres dans la fonction de régulation pour Eurocontrol . 
FRENCH Nous n ' avons pas besoin de plusieurs voix mais bien d ' une unanimité sur la question de la régulation . 
FRENCH Je demande avec insistance à la commissaire de présenter une nouvelle fois au groupe de travail les propositions que le Parlement va adopter aujourd ' hui et de continuer à veiller à ce que le groupe de travail produise de très bons résultats pratiques . 
FRENCH Nous avons une grande estime pour la vice - présidente , car elle a associé des experts civils et militaires à ce groupe et les travaux avancent bien . 
FRENCH Nous souhaitons beaucoup de chance et de succès à la vice - présidente , de manière à pouvoir présenter un excellent programme en octobre . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , permettez - moi de commencer , au nom du parti des socialistes européens , de saluer l ' initiative de la commissaire . 
FRENCH Nous partageons et soutenons ses objectifs . 
FRENCH Toutefois , nous regrettons peut - être l ' absence d ' intégration - - ce qui est apparent si on lit sa communication - - avec les autres initiatives qu ' elles poursuit . 
FRENCH Nous notons également l ' absence de volonté politique au sein de la Commission et du Conseil , bien qu ' il vaille peut - être la peine de se rappeler que cette initiative émane du Conseil , au mois de juin de l ' année dernière , lorsque celui - ci a demandé à la commissaire de faire cette communication . 
FRENCH Nous voyons la subsidiarité à l ' & # x0153 ; uvre - : action européenne là où cela s ' avère nécessaire , action nationale là où c ' est possible . 
FRENCH Je voudrais le remercier personnellement pour avoir pris en considération bon nombre de nos préoccupations , en particulier dans le domaine de la sécurité , dont je constate qu ' elle constitue à ses yeux la première priorité dans son rapport . 
FRENCH Capacités des pistes des aéroports , planification des vols , comportement des passagers , infrastructure des aéroports et manque de contrôleurs ( ce qui a été mentionné par les rapporteurs ) . 
FRENCH En effet , la sécurité devrait constituer , avant tout , notre règle directrice et je suis convaincu qu ' elle deviendra notre principe directeur dans les mois à venir . 
FRENCH En Europe , entre 1986 et 1996, le trafic aérien a doublé . 
FRENCH Dans les dix prochaines années , il doublera à nouveau . 
FRENCH Nous devons nous attaquer à ce dossier de manière urgente et rapidement , mais d ' une manière cohérente . 
FRENCH Ce que nous voulons peut - être de la commissaire aujourd ' hui , c ' est qu ' elle nous présente un calendrier clair quant à sa vitesse d ' action dans les mois à venir . 
FRENCH Nous savons tous que , cet été , des voyageurs attendrons dans des salles d ' attentes des aéroports se demandant pourquoi leur avion est retardé , non pas de quelques minutes , mais bien des heures . 
FRENCH Espérons que la commissaire puisse nous présenter aujourd ' hui un calendrier reprenant les dates auxquelles ces retards cesseront . 
FRENCH J ' attends avec impatience ses commentaires , en particulier , j ' attends avec impatience qu ' elle informe le Parlement sur les conclusions du Conseil , la semaine dernière , qui a reçu le rapport provisoire du groupe de haut niveau . 
FRENCH J ' invite instamment mes collègues à soutenir la proposition du rapporteur et j ' invite la commissaire à présenter un calendrier très clair . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , Madame la Commissaire , chers collègues , je pense que Sir Robert Atkins a rendu un bon rapport . 
FRENCH Il indique clairement la direction que nous devons emprunter , car la situation dans laquelle nous nous trouvons est absurde . Nous disposons en effet d ' un marché unifié pour la navigation aérienne mais notre espace aérien est divisé de manière insensée . 
FRENCH Plusieurs collègues ont d ' - ores et déjà exposé les conséquences qui en découlent . 
FRENCH Si nous souhaitons un espace aérien unifié , nous devons évidemment consentir des investissements , votre rapport le précise d ' - ailleurs clairement . 
FRENCH Le personnel est insuffisant , il faudrait engager plusieurs milliers de personnes et investir dans l ' infrastructure technique . 
FRENCH Il est donc évident qu ' il faut débloquer de l ' argent . 
FRENCH Cela signifie également -- et ce point est à mon avis plus critique -- que des décisions doivent être prises rapidement au niveau politique , lesquelles décisions ne peuvent aller que dans un sens . 
FRENCH Nous devons aborder ce thème sur le plan européen . 
FRENCH L ' - accent doit naturellement être placé sur la prestation de services , car le contrôle de la navigation aérienne n ' est pas une fin en soi , il s ' agit d ' un service offert à une compagnie aérienne , à ses clients . 
FRENCH Nous avons tendance à l ' oublier et à nous concentrer uniquement sur des détails . 
FRENCH Si nous parlons de prestation de services au sein d ' un marché unique , cela sous - entend la fin des monopoles , l ' existence d ' - une réglementation européenne claire et , partant , la suppression des monopoles en matière de prestation de services . 
FRENCH Nous sommes tous d ' accord à ce sujet et j ' espère que nous progresserons rapidement . 
FRENCH Comme M. Watts l ' a déjà souligné , la sécurité représente un point essentiel . 
FRENCH Il est exclu de faire des concessions , quelles qu ' elles soient , à ce sujet . 
FRENCH Le plus important -- et je pense que cela ne posera aucun problème pour vous , Madame la Commissaire -- est que si le groupe de haut niveau communique ses conclusions au mois d ' octobre , vous nous soumettiez des propositions le plus rapidement possible . 
FRENCH Ensuite , tout le monde devra faire pression auprès du Conseil de Ministres et les États membres devront prendre les décisions qui s ' imposent afin d ' - emprunter la voie que nous avons déjà plusieurs fois ouverte au sein du Parlement européen et dans le rapport de Sir - Robert - Atkins . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , le rapport traite du problème de l ' accroissement du trafic aérien . 
FRENCH Je voudrais insister sur un seul aspect de ce rapport , ou , pour être plus précis , sur une omission majeure de ce rapport . 
FRENCH Un certain nombre de propositions sont avancées , mais , à mes yeux , le problème du rapport est que l ' idée principale consiste à dire que la congestion peut simplement être résolue par le biais de la libéralisation du système de gestion et de contrôle du trafic aérien . 
FRENCH Les options présentées se concentrent sur des arrangements techniques et non sur les tendances sous - jacentes . 
FRENCH Il est certain qu ' un ciel unique européen rendrait l ' utilisation de l ' espace aérien européen plus efficace . 
FRENCH Des améliorations dans la gestion du trafic aérien fourniraient davantage d ' espace . 
FRENCH La restriction de l ' utilisation de l ' espace aérien militaire produirait également une différence significative . 
FRENCH Cependant , aucun de ces arrangements techniques n ' auront un impact à long terme , à moins que nous abordions le problème sous - jacent , à savoir la croissance non durable du trafic aérien . 
FRENCH Le rapport ne lie pas la question de la congestion à la réduction du trafic aérien - ; dès lors , celui - ci omet une stratégie vitale . 
FRENCH Considérons les faits . 
FRENCH Le récent rapport de la Commission stipulait déjà que la croissance du secteur de l ' aviation est non durable et doit être inversée . En outre , il prévoit un doublement de la croissance dans les quinze prochaines années . 
FRENCH Cela provoque des problèmes de congestion majeurs mais cela provoque également des problèmes environnementaux - - non seulement le bruit et la pollution pour les personnes vivant aux alentours des aéroports , mais également des répercussions sur le climat mondial . 
FRENCH Les transports aériens constituent déjà la source d ' émission de gaz à effet de serre dont la croissance est la plus rapide dans le monde et pourrait constituer jusqu ' à 15 - % des émissions d ' ici 2050 . 
FRENCH Malheureusement , ce rapport n ' établit pas le lien vital entre congestion et réduction du trafic aérien et manque , dès lors , une occasion unique d ' aborder ces problèmes de manière durable . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , Madame la Commissaire , je pense qu ' il y a une ambiguïté concernant l ' expression " ciel unique européen " , parce que le contrôle aérien est quand même , vous le savez bien , d ' ores et déjà , de fait , un domaine d ' activité européen . 
FRENCH Il existe une maîtrise européenne de l ' espace aérien avec Eurocontrol et il existe un organisme , le Central Flow Management Unit , basé à Bruxelles . 
FRENCH C ' est imparfait , sûrement , mais ils existent . 
FRENCH Il faut donc améliorer la situation à partir du constat évident pour chacun que les retards se sont accentués et que le trafic augmentant , ils vont se développer . 
FRENCH Il est reconnu que les causes des retards sont multiples , mais finalement , je trouve qu ' on est face à une offensive pour présenter le contrôle aérien comme seul responsable des retards . 
FRENCH Il serait judicieux , je crois , de se pencher aussi beaucoup plus sur les problèmes de types d ' avions , de types de flux , d ' escales et de rotations et , bien sûr , sur les problèmes qui persistent du côté de la défense . 
FRENCH J ' ai le sentiment qu ' on se lance dans une fuite en avant avec des solutions en apparence évidentes , mais qui ne prennent pas en compte la spécificité du contrôle aérien . 
FRENCH M. Zimeray le disait tout à l ' heure - : oui , le trajet d ' un avion est morcelé en espaces et plus le trafic est dense , plus il y a de divisions en espaces . 
FRENCH Pourquoi - ? 
FRENCH Parce que la division en espaces , c ' est la capacité humaine à contrôler , à gérer un certain nombre d ' avions . 
FRENCH Alors penser qu ' il y aurait trop de centres de contrôles est à mon avis une ineptie . 
FRENCH Pourquoi alors ne pas dire qu ' il y a trop d ' avions - ? 
FRENCH Il n ' y a pas non plus , que je sache , de points de blocage du contrôle aérien spécifiques aux zones de frontière . 
FRENCH La grande proposition qui nous est faite pour améliorer le trafic consiste à séparer les fonctions de régulation et de contrôle . 
FRENCH Mais quel est l ' intérêt d ' une telle mesure - ? 
FRENCH Mais ce n ' est pas cela qu ' on nous propose . 
FRENCH La séparation des fonctions aboutirait à libéraliser la fourniture des services du trafic aérien , à mettre en place , comme le dit le rapport Atkins d ' ailleurs , un marché intérieur libéralisé . 
FRENCH Or , je pense qu ' il est contraire à la sécurité de placer les organismes de contrôle ou de certification des appareils sous la pression des marchés . 
FRENCH Il faut donc préserver la capacité d ' investir dans de nouveaux outils technologiques , dans la formation . 
FRENCH En France -- et je ne prétends pas en faire un modèle -- il existe une direction générale qui régit l ' ensemble et , ces dernières années , il y a eu des investissements , il y a eu embauche de contrôleurs . 
FRENCH Le système est performant . 
FRENCH Au nom de quoi voulez - vous casser .. . 
FRENCH ( Le président retire la parole à l ' orateur ) 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , ce rapport part d ' une constatation évidente , que les parlementaires européens connaissent d ' ailleurs fort bien puisqu ' ils empruntent fréquemment les transports aériens - : le ciel est toujours plus encombré du fait de la demande croissante concernant le transport aérien . 
FRENCH Cette surcharge d ' avions entraîne inévitablement une aggravation des retards dans le trafic aérien , qui portent préjudice aux passagers , aux entreprises , aux affaires et au tourisme . 
FRENCH À l ' instar du rapporteur , nous considérons que les transports aériens doivent être envisagés comme un système cohérent d ' opérateurs , aéroports et services de contrôle du trafic aérien , dont les composants sont directement interdépendants , et que seule une analyse globale peut résoudre les problèmes de capacité de l ' espace aérien . 
FRENCH C ' est pourquoi nous saluons la création du groupe de haut niveau composé de représentants civils et militaires , groupe placé sous la présidence de Mme la commissaire Loyola de Palacio et qui se consacre à l ' étude de la question des retards des avions afin de minimiser les problèmes qu ' ils causent . 
FRENCH Ce groupe devra présenter un rapport au Conseil en temps opportun . 
FRENCH Quant à nous , nous attendons de ce rapport définitif qu ' il se concentre sur l ' élaboration de propositions viables et de solutions concrètes , réalistes et efficaces , en vue de résoudre le problème des retards du trafic aérien en Europe , et qu ' il laisse tomber les suggestions polémiques qui ne contribuent pas du tout ou peu à cet objectif , comme la défense de la libre concurrence entre prestataires de services de gestion du trafic aérien . 
FRENCH En effet , nous ne voyons pas quelle est la relation entre cette prétendue libéralisation et la question des retards , qui doit être réglée d ' urgence . 
FRENCH D ' autre part , nous voulons que les solutions qui seront proposées respectent la souveraineté nationale des États membres , en limitant la centralisation de l ' activité régulant les matières strictement nécessaires , qu ' elles sauvegardent les exigences particulières liées à la défense et aux besoins militaires spécifiques de chacun et qu ' elles respectent les engagements de tous au sein des organisations internationales . 
FRENCH Cela ne signifie pas que les pays ne doivent pas assouplir le plus possible le transit d ' avions dans l ' espace aérien supérieur et rechercher des formules d ' articulation plus efficaces avec les besoins opérationnels de nature militaire . 
FRENCH L ' approfondissement du programme européen de gestion aérienne , dont la finalité consiste à obtenir une complète coordination et intégration des systèmes ATM à l ' échelle européenne , doit aussi se poursuivre dans le cadre d ' EUROCONTROL , puisque le problème ne réside pas tant dans la division de l ' espace aérien , qui peut être justifiée du point de vue de l ' adéquation du nombre d ' avions et de routes confiés à chaque contrôleur , mais bien dans l ' harmonisation technique des systèmes ATM . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , le rapport Atkins est fort appréciable en ce qu ' il aborde un thème particulièrement délicat et , dirais - je , extrêmement technique , mais le problème est essentiellement politique . 
FRENCH J ' ai entendu parler d ' un nombre excessif d ' avions , d ' un nombre excessif d ' avions confié à un seul contrôleur , etc . , mais ici , il suffit d ' observer le pays le plus avancé dans le domaine de l ' aéronautique , c ' est - à - dire les États - Unis d ' Amérique , où on s ' est attaqué à ces problèmes et où , si on ne les a pas totalement résolus , on a trouvé des solutions appropriées . 
FRENCH Il y a surtout un fait fondamental - : aux États - Unis , il n ' y a qu ' un seul contrôle du trafic aérien - ; en Europe , il y en a encore quinze , du moins dans l ' Union européenne . 
FRENCH Ajoutez - y la Suisse qui se trouve en plein milieu et les pays limitrophes , et vous comprendrez pourquoi nous rencontrons tant de difficultés . 
FRENCH Il est dès lors juste de souhaiter un contrôle unique du trafic aérien , au moins pour ce qui est de l ' Union européenne , englobant pour des raisons techniques , la Confédération helvétique . 
FRENCH Je voudrais conclure en exprimant ma perplexité à l ' encontre du principe de subsidiarité . C ' est un principe essentiel , mais pas toujours simple . 
FRENCH Les règles du transport et du trafic aériens sont peut - être , avec celles de la navigation maritime , les plus internationales qui soient , et il est de ce fait difficile d ' entrer dans les détails . 
FRENCH N ' oublions pas les autres utilisateurs de l ' espace aérien tels que les avions taxis , les compagnies privées et les utilisateurs des avions des aéro - clubs . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , Madame la Commissaire , la conquête d ' une place sur le marché des transports n ' est pas une sinécure . 
FRENCH Surtout en présence d ' une concurrence exacerbée , d ' une pression considérable , d ' accords de coopération internationaux et de postes de frais externes non négligeables . 
FRENCH Telle est la situation à laquelle le secteur de la navigation aérienne se trouve confronté . 
FRENCH C ' est pour ces raisons que nous devons penser à l ' avenir du secteur . 
FRENCH Selon moi , la croissance illimitée ne doit pas être acceptée en tant que donnée . 
FRENCH Certes , plusieurs flux de transport ne peuvent être effectués que par voie aérienne . Mais d ' - autres possibilités existent pour la majorité . 
FRENCH C ' est dans cette direction que nous devons orienter notre politique . 
FRENCH Nous n ' avons toutefois pas encore atteint ce stade et le développement des réseaux transeuropéens connaît des résultats inégaux . 
FRENCH Selon moi , la solution la plus importante consiste à mettre à profit l ' espace disponible , tant au niveau de l ' espace aérien que des appareils . Comme le précise le rapporteur , cette démarche exige des mesures applicables au personnel et à l ' organisation . 
FRENCH La création d ' un ciel unique européen fournira temporairement assez d ' espace pour concevoir , à partir de la configuration actuelle , des mesures structurelles contre la croissance effrénée de la navigation aérienne . 
FRENCH C ' est ainsi que nous devons agir si nous voulons concrétiser les ambitions d ' une politique durable en matière de transports . 
FRENCH Il ne suffit pas de faciliter les choses , il faut aussi prendre les mesures de restriction qui s ' imposent . 
FRENCH Pour le moment , le rapporteur ouvre la voie de manière appropriée . Veillons cependant à ne pas nous reposer sur nos lauriers et continuons de réfléchir à l ' avenir du secteur des transports en général et de la navigation aérienne en particulier . 
FRENCH Le rapport de M. Atkins traite d ' - une question qui est peut - être la plus importante que Mme de Palacio et nous - mêmes , en tant que parlementaires européens , ayons à gérer dans les prochaines quatre ou cinq années , et il me faut , tout d ' - abord , féliciter M. Atkins de l ' - approche qu ' - il adopte dans le rapport en question . 
FRENCH Au - delà de cela , de toute évidence , le problème est colossal . 
FRENCH Les retards , sur l ' - ensemble des vols , sont passés de 12,7 - % en 1991, à 30 - % en 1999 . 
FRENCH Jusqu ' - en 2010, les vols vont quasiment doubler . Conséquences des retards - : temps perdu , dommages économiques , saturation et , par conséquent , risques pour la sécurité . 
FRENCH Eurocontrol s ' - est avéré un mécanisme insuffisant pour gérer le trafic aérien . 
FRENCH Les États membres , surmontant leur inquiétude , peut - être justifiée , quant à la gestion de leur espace aérien , devront , à un moment donné , voir quelques années en avant , au - delà de leurs frontières et de la situation actuelle , les besoins qui se créent . 
FRENCH Il nous faut aller de l ' - avant dès maintenant , et régler les multiples détails techniques , comme , par exemple , les relations entre l ' - aviation civile et l ' - aviation militaire . 
FRENCH Entre - temps , cependant , les passagers devront être dédommagés en cas de retards des compagnies aériennes et , bien entendu , être informés de leurs droits . 
FRENCH Je conclurai mon intervention en rappelant la prise de position du Parlement européen , lors du vote du rapport relatif à la Conférence intergouvernementale - : il soutenait que , dans nos États membres , la fonction de régulation du trafic aérien en Europe , doit passer à l ' - Union européenne . 
FRENCH Nul doute que les retards en matière de contrôle de trafic aérien constituent un problème . 
FRENCH Je crois savoir que le retard moyen serait de 20 minutes . 
FRENCH Tout ce que mon expérience me permet de dire , c ' est que quelqu ' un doit particulièrement en vouloir à Manchester , parce que je n ' ai jamais pris de vol Sabena de Bruxelles vers Manchester ayant ne fût - ce qu ' approché les vingt minutes de retard . 
FRENCH Je peux dire avec certitude que l ' horaire ne constitue qu ' un guide et non quelque chose de définitif , lorsqu ' il s ' agit de planifier un voyage . 
FRENCH Il est clair que c ' est un problème auquel nous devons nous attaquer . 
FRENCH Le rapport doit envisager toutes les questions relatives au trafic aérien et adopter une approche double , telle que proposée par la Commission . 
FRENCH Cependant , tous les retards ne sont pas dus au contrôle du trafic aérien . 
FRENCH L ' excuse la plus grossière du monde utilisée par les compagnies aériennes est de dire aux passagers que le retard est dû au trafic aérien . 
FRENCH Jamais les contrôleurs du trafic aérien des aéroports ne disent le contraire . 
FRENCH À franchement parler , bon nombre des retards sont dus à l ' inefficacité de certaines compagnies aériennes elles - mêmes . 
FRENCH Des passagers disparaissent . 
FRENCH Je suis toujours étonné du nombre de passagers qui disparaissent dans les aéroports - ! 
FRENCH Je me demande ce qu ' ils fabriquent - ? 
FRENCH Ils provoquent invariablement autant de retards que le trafic aérien . 
FRENCH La question relative à Eurocontrol est importante . 
FRENCH Nous soutenons le compromis contenu dans le point 8 concernant Eurocontrol . 
FRENCH Nous soutenons également la nécessité pour les militaires de céder une partie de leur espace aérien . 
FRENCH Pour conclure , il y a quelques amendements issus du groupe TDI . 
FRENCH Je suis particulièrement intéressé par l ' amendement 24 . 
FRENCH Je ne peux que supposer que le groupe TDI doit.. . 
FRENCH ( Le président retire la parole à l ' orateur ) 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , je voudrais moi aussi remercier le rapporteur pour son excellent rapport . 
FRENCH Les expériences de lundi dernier confirment qu ' il s ' agit vraiment d ' un rapport très important . 
FRENCH Des vols avaient été annulés et plusieurs vols avaient beaucoup de retard . 
FRENCH La situation est vraiment intenable - : l ' espace aérien est sérieusement encombré , les vols ont constamment du retard et les droits des passagers aériens sont tout à fait inexistants . 
FRENCH Le rapport contient des mesures qui vont dans le bon sens et qui doivent être appliquées sans tarder . 
FRENCH Je ne crois certes pas qu ' elles soient suffisantes car on s ' attend à un doublement du trafic aérien au cours des dix prochaines années . 
FRENCH Il faudra passer des vols courts aux chemins de fer pour disposer de la place pour les vols plus longs car il n ' existe guère d ' alternative à ces derniers . 
FRENCH La taxe environnementale prévue pour le trafic aérien devra aussi être pondérée de façon à ne pas affecter démesurément les vols long courrier et à encourager à prendre le train pour les trajets courts . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , Madame la Commissaire , chers collègues , avec la mondialisation , nous avons eu le plaisir de découvrir que les avions , en particulier , pouvaient nous transporter de notre ville aux quatre coins du monde , et nous aimons tellement cela que nous ne pouvons plus vivre sans prendre l ' avion . 
FRENCH Mais tout comme nous avons découvert la congestion automobile des villes , nous constatons que l ' - espace aérien est aujourd ' hui bien trop souvent congestionné , les retards sont fréquents , nos valises sont perdues et nous devons subir toutes sortes de grèves du zèle et à caractère syndical . 
FRENCH Nous , les usagers , nous pensons qu ' - il faut établir et défendre nos droits et améliorer la gestion des compagnies aériennes , des aéroports , des horaires de vol et du contrôle aérien . 
FRENCH Mais , bien souvent , nous pensons également qu ' - il faut que l ' ensemble des Européens partagent davantage leur souveraineté aérienne et qu ' - il existe une grande partie de l ' - espace aérien réservé dont on ne tire pas les bénéfices sociaux que notre époque exige . 
FRENCH Il faut dès lors promouvoir , outre la réforme d ' Eurocontrol , l ' augmentation du nombre de fréquences radio et l ' application des meilleures technologies nouvelles en matière de contrôle , afin d ' augmenter le nombre de couloirs aériens et d ' avions . En cette période de stabilité , il faut que l ' - aviation commerciale civile puisse utiliser les espaces réservés , surtout dans ses cotes d ' altitude les plus élevées , lesquels , habituellement , ne sont pas souvent utilisés par l ' - armée . 
FRENCH Les citoyens le demandent , et je crois qu ' - il est possible de trouver une solution parfaitement valable pour tous en partageant , j ' - insiste , la souveraineté et l ' - espace réservé à l ' - aviation militaire . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , Madame la Commissaire , Mesdames et Messieurs , à l ' instar du rapporteur et des orateurs précédents , je pense qu ' il est urgent de prendre les mesures appropriées en vue de s ' attaquer à l ' augmentation constante des retards qui touchent le trafic aérien européen et , à terme , d ' y remédier . 
FRENCH La discussion en commission et , aujourd ' hui , en séance plénière tourne toujours autour des moyens et méthodes les plus appropriés pour parvenir à une modification de la gestion du trafic aérien . 
FRENCH Sir Atkins , dont j ' apprécie particulièrement les compétences professionnelles , et une majorité de la commission de la politique régionale , des transports et du tourisme pensent que cet objectif peut avant tout être atteint par des mesures de libéralisation . 
FRENCH Une libéralisation augmente incontestablement le nombre d ' entrepreneurs , mais elle ne remédie pas à certains problèmes et en crée même de nouveaux . 
FRENCH Premièrement , tant que les États membres placent leurs intérêts nationaux légitimes au - dessus de ceux de l ' ensemble de l ' Europe en ce qui concerne la coordination et l ' utilisation d ' un espace aérien européen , cela ne donnera lieu à aucune modification fondamentale . 
FRENCH Deuxièmement , c ' est également une raison qui explique le manque d ' efficacité d ' Eurocontrol . 
FRENCH Peu importe que l ' on procède à une séparation entre la régulation et la surveillance , que vous libéralisiez ou privatisiez , tant qu ' il n ' existe aucune volonté politique pour accepter que l ' espace aérien de l ' Europe soit uniquement géré à l ' échelle européenne , dix rapports supplémentaires n ' y feront rien - ! 
FRENCH Troisièmement , l ' utilisation civile de l ' espace aérien doit avoir la priorité . 
FRENCH Dans une Europe unifiée pacifique , il n ' existe aucune raison logique qui justifie qu ' une partie importante de l ' espace aérien soit encore réservée à l ' armée . 
FRENCH Quatrièmement , ne pensez - vous pas non plus qu ' en faisant de la libéralisation un fétichisme , la probabilité d ' une diminution des offres sur les destinations moins lucratives soit très élevée et qu ' il ne peut y avoir de concurrence loyale tant que nous n ' avons pas arrêté des normes de sécurité coordonnées , harmonisées et sociales - ? 
FRENCH Cinquièmement , nous n ' avons pas besoin d ' une influence de la Commission sur les gouvernements nationaux en cas de conflits sociaux , comme on l ' exige au point 14 du rapport , mais bien d ' un dialogue social fonctionnant au mieux entre tous les acteurs du trafic aérien - ! 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , le rapport de M. Atkins évoque un certain nombre de problèmes réels que pose l ' évolution du système aérien en Europe . 
FRENCH La question de la sécurité d ' abord . 
FRENCH Les conflits du travail qui perturbent parfois le trafic prennent en otage , sans préavis sérieux , des milliers d ' usagers . 
FRENCH Le rapport n ' évoque cependant pas une question essentielle - : celle des droits de trafic . 
FRENCH C ' est dans la négociation internationale des droits de trafic que cette notion d ' espace aérien européen & # x2026 ; 
FRENCH ( Le président retire la parole à l ' orateur ) 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , on constate que le transport aérien est progressivement accessible à un plus grand nombre de nos concitoyens . 
FRENCH Cette démocratisation est certes la bienvenue , mais soulève des questions importantes pour le futur - : accroissement du trafic , engorgement des aéroports , congestion du ciel et non respect de l ' environnement , notamment en termes de nuisances phoniques . 
FRENCH La volonté de créer un trafic aérien optimal en Europe part d ' un bon sentiment , mais pourquoi la Commission devrait - elle remettre en cause les politiques aériennes des États membres et leurs accords bilatéraux au moyen d ' un espace aérien unique - ? 
FRENCH Bien entendu , je souscris , d ' une part , à l ' objectif de rationalisation des mouvements d ' avions et , d ' autre part , à l ' objectif de recherche d ' une meilleure fluidité du trafic , ceci dans le plein respect de la protection des consommateurs et de la sécurité des usagers . 
FRENCH J ' aimerais bien croire Mme Palacio lorsqu ' elle assure qu ' il n ' y a , je cite , " aucune référence à la mise en concurrence des services de contrôle aérien ou à leur privatisation dans les travaux de la Commission . 
FRENCH " Mais alors , les différents mouvements sociaux des personnels concernés seraient donc sans aucun fondement - ? 
FRENCH La Commission réclame l ' avènement d ' une véritable autorité de gestion du trafic aérien , qui soit une autorité réglementaire forte . 
FRENCH 
FRENCH Je dis non , non à une refonte complète d ' Eurocontrol , non à une nouvelle structure réglementaire -- son fonctionnement actuel organise avec efficacité , tout compte fait , et en particulier en matière de sécurité , un trafic équilibré en respectant les systèmes nationaux , auxquels chaque État doit pouvoir avoir droit -- non à une représentation par la Commission des États membres aux côtés des États extérieurs , annihilant de fait tout pouvoir de décision politique en matière de transport aérien . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , Madame la Vice - présidente de la Commission , la communication de la Commission et l ' excellent travail du rapporteur vont dans le sens du dernier Conseil européen de Lisbonne , où l ' - on invitait la Commission à présenter , dans les plus brefs , délais une série de propositions concrètes . 
FRENCH C ' - est à présent le Conseil qui devra prendre les décisions politiques nécessaires et urgentes permettant d ' achever le marché unique de l ' - aviation à l ' - aide d ' - un système unique de contrôle du trafic aérien . 
FRENCH La croissance de la demande se situe actuellement entre 5 - % et 7 - % par an et il est probable qu ' il en soit de même au cours des prochaines années , ce qui complique encore plus le travail de systèmes européens de gestion du trafic aérien , qui se sont montrés incapables de faire face à un tel développement et auxquels on doit plus de 50 - % des retards , bien qu ' - il soit vrai qu ' - il existe d ' - autres causes , comme les limites des aéroports et une programmation des vols ne tenant pas compte des limites des infrastructures . 
FRENCH Une autre cause qui rend le système actuel inefficace est l ' - organisation différente des systèmes civil et militaire , ainsi que les différentes normes de matériel technique au sol . 
FRENCH Mais le seul fait qu ' - une crise puisse éclater ne justifie pas que certains États membres maintiennent les normes en vigueur durant la guerre froide . 
FRENCH Il est nécessaire que les contrôleurs civils et militaires des tours de contrôle travaillent en étroite collaboration . 
FRENCH Il est clairement nécessaire d ' - établir une coopération plus efficace entre les différentes utilisations de l ' - espace , et il me semble que cette coopération ou point de vue commun doit émerger au niveau européen . 
FRENCH Je félicite le rapporteur et la vice - présidente de la Commission pour les points communs partagés sur un problème tellement important et sensible pour la vie quotidienne de nos citoyens . 
FRENCH Le rapport de M. Atkins est détaillé et équilibré , il présente une position actuelle et correcte de notre Parlement . 
FRENCH Enfin , Madame la Vice - présidente , sachez que nous sommes conscients de vos efforts et que nous vous soutiendrons dans la voie que vous avez empruntée . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , j ' émets les plus grandes réserves à l ' égard du rapport Atkins parce qu ' il porte la marque d ' intérêts commerciaux qui avancent masqués derrière les meilleures intentions du monde . 
FRENCH En guise de ciel unique , une telle libéralisation nous promettrait un ciel à plusieurs vitesses . 
FRENCH Je ne m ' explique pas autrement le procès en sorcellerie qui est fait dans ce rapport aux seuls services de contrôle civil . 
FRENCH Nous savons tous que l ' augmentation considérable du trafic aérien est la cause tendancielle principale d ' encombrement et de saturation du ciel . 
FRENCH Nous savons tous qu ' il faudrait démultiplier les pistes et les plates - formes pour avoir quelque chance d ' obtenir une pause , une simple pause dans la saturation . 
FRENCH Enfin , dans mon pays , les compagnies aériennes ont choisi de mettre en place des navettes qui envoient , de chaque ville de province française , une douzaine d ' aéronefs de faible capacité tous les matins de 6 h 30 à 8 h 30, sur la seule plate - forme parisienne . 
FRENCH Est - ce la faute au contrôle aérien si ledit contrôle refuse qu ' ils atterrissent tous ensemble à Paris - ? 
FRENCH Voilà les causes essentielles des retards aériens . 
FRENCH Mais je n ' imagine pas personnellement que des services de sécurité collective soient régentés par le seul profit , sous contrôle d ' actionnaires . 
FRENCH Et je n ' imagine pas que le ciel unique européen soit demain un ciel inégal entre compagnies aériennes . 
FRENCH J ' espère , Madame la Commissaire , que la Commission , dans la préparation de la future directive sur le ciel unique , saura aborder cette question avec plus d ' impartialité , de globalité et de sérénité . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , je me fais le relais de la protestation des contrôleurs aériens contre le projet de la Commission européenne qui , derrière le slogan plaisant de " ciel unique européen " , ouvrira la voie à la privatisation du contrôle aérien . 
FRENCH Ce rapport évoque les retards qui seraient de plus en plus fréquents . 
FRENCH C ' est précisément la course au profit des compagnies aériennes qui les conduit à des choix entraînant ces retards . 
FRENCH Il est de l ' intérêt des usagers et de leur sécurité , comme de l ' intérêt des travailleurs de ce secteur que le contrôle aérien reste un service public , avec la vocation exclusive d ' assurer le bon déroulement du trafic aérien . 
FRENCH La concurrence , la recherche du profit dans un domaine aussi sensible que le contrôle aérien , conduiront inévitablement à des catastrophes . 
FRENCH S ' il est nécessaire de mettre fin aux particularismes nationaux en matière de gestion du trafic aérien , et légitime d ' unifier l ' espace aérien européen , cela doit se faire en récusant toute idée de privatisation , de concurrence , de recherche de rentabilité , et nous voterons contre ce rapport . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , je me dois vraiment de féliciter mon collègue , Sir Robert Atkins , membre du parti conservateur britannique , pour l ' excellence de son rapport sur le ciel unique européen . 
FRENCH Cela démontre sans aucun doute que l ' ambition globale de l ' Union européen est une nation unique , avec son drapeau unique , son hymne national unique , son espace juridique unique , ses frontières nationales uniques et , maintenant , les citoyens de l ' Europe seront bientôt en mesure de respirer de l ' air européen unique . 
FRENCH Toutefois , après l ' échec de la politique de la terre unique , connue sous le nom de PAC , la politique de la mer unique , la PCP , nous nous attendons avec impatience à l ' échec similaire de la politique du ciel unique . 
FRENCH En particulier , étant donné le nombre de grèves chez les contrôleurs du trafic aérien , je suppose que nous pouvons à présent nous attendre à la grève unique européenne . 
FRENCH Mais vous avez apporté de l ' eau au moulin du mouvement eurosceptique en Grande - Bretagne , Sir Robert , je vous en félicite . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , il est tout à fait vrai de dire que le problème des retards du trafic aériens doit être abordé de manière urgente . 
FRENCH Le problème réel se situe dans les zones à cheval sur le nord et le sud qui incluent la Suisse , la France , l ' Italie , l ' Espagne , des parties de l ' Allemagne , ainsi que l ' espace aérien supérieur de Maastricht . Celles - ci sont responsable de 44 - % des retards de gestion du flux de trafic aérien et de 30 goulots d ' étranglement . 
FRENCH À un moment donné , la Grèce faisait partie du problème . 
FRENCH Cependant , les résultats impressionnants des Grecs démontrent que des améliorations sont possibles si des actions énergiques sont mises en & # x0153 ; uvre et si les gouvernements nationaux coopèrent réellement entre eux . 
FRENCH Trop souvent , Eurocontrol fait office de bouc émissaire et est accusé d ' avoir provoqué la situation actuelle , mais les véritables reproches doivent être adressés aux gouvernements nationaux pour leur inaction dans les domaines que j ' ai évoqués . 
FRENCH Il est évident que le Conseil " transports européens " doit prendre des mesures immédiates afin de garantir que les décisions relatives au contrôle du trafic aérien soient appliquées par tous les États membres , partout en Europe . 
FRENCH Il convient de garder à l ' esprit qu ' Eurocontrol est la seule institution paneuropéenne dans le domaine de la gestion du trafic aérien et qu ' elle doit recevoir notre soutien . 
FRENCH Pour conclure , la question évoquée du manque critique de personnel - - chiffre qui s ' élève à 1000 contrôleurs aériens dans toute l ' Europe - - doit être abordée de manière urgente par les gouvernements nationaux . 
FRENCH En soi , cela contribuera largement à l ' amélioration du flux du trafic aérien . 
FRENCH En outre , les aéroports et les compagnies aériennes doivent examiner minutieusement leurs pratiques , étant donné qu ' eux aussi , ils sont bien trop souvent responsables du haut pourcentage de retards subis . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , permettez - moi de commencer par dire merci au rapporteur Atkins pour son action énergique , à la Commission pour avoir fait de cette question une de ses priorités , ainsi qu ' au commissaire responsable de Palacio pour avoir osé passer de la parole à l ' action . 
FRENCH Grâce à eux , la question d ' un contrôle aérien commun à court terme est plus proche d ' une solution que sans doute jamais auparavant . 
FRENCH Il est vrai qu ' il reste beaucoup à faire . 
FRENCH Nous nous trouvons au beau milieu d ' un autre été chaotique dans les airs . 
FRENCH L ' évolution à laquelle nous assistons à l ' heure actuelle conduira à une multiplication par deux du trafic aérien d ' ici les années suivant 2010 . 
FRENCH Cela suppose la prise de décisions politiques urgentes . 
FRENCH Autrement , nous courons le risque que l ' engorgement de l ' espace aérien dans le futur n ' entraîne pas seulement des retards de quinze , trente ou soixante minutes , chose que nous pouvons éventuellement accepter , mais nous risquons de ne plus être convaincus de régler la sécurité . 
FRENCH C ' est dans cette perspective que le rapport de M. Atkins et l ' action de la Commission doivent être envisagés . 
FRENCH L ' UE a consacré beaucoup de temps et d ' énergie à démanteler les frontières et à créer un marché intérieur . 
FRENCH Tous ceux qui voyagent dans les airs , ce que nous faisons assez souvent , s ' aperçoivent toutefois qu ' il y a encore des frontières partout . 
FRENCH Le rapport fixe un calendrier particulièrement serré . 
FRENCH Je partage cette ambition . 
FRENCH Veillons ensemble à ce que l ' été 2000 soit le dernier été chaotique dans le ciel surplombant l ' Europe . 
FRENCH La Commission peut sans aucun doute atteindre cet objectif en s ' appuyant sur le rapport Atkins . 
FRENCH Juste avant la pause estivale , alors que tout le monde part en vacances et que de plus en plus de gens utilisent l ' avion , le Parlement aborde les questions relatives au transport aérien . 
FRENCH Il s ' agit là d ' un thème déplaisant , comme nous le savons tous . C ' est ce que doivent ressentir tous les passagers . 
FRENCH Il s ' agit des retards qui durent souvent plusieurs heures et dont nous souffrons tous . 
FRENCH Pendant les vacances , c ' est également ce qu ' endurent de larges parties de la population . 
FRENCH Je voudrais encore rappeler un aspect important . 
FRENCH Cette question ne concerne pas uniquement les nombreuses difficultés personnelles liées à l ' emploi du temps des passagers , mais également les frais supplémentaires en kérosène ainsi que les pollutions provoquées lorsque les avions ne peuvent pas atterrir dans les délais . 
FRENCH C ' est pourquoi je salue le fait que la Commission ait présenté un rapport sur ces problèmes importants et qu ' elle ait mis à contribution le groupe de haut niveau qui est en charge de ces problèmes et de la création d ' un ciel unique européen . 
FRENCH J ' espère qu ' en automne , nous recevrons les résultats définitifs de l ' enquête , afin de pouvoir réaliser des avancées concrètes en collaboration avec la Commission . 
FRENCH Les normes de sécurité ne peuvent en aucun cas être menacées . 
FRENCH C ' est la raison pour laquelle les espaces aériens doivent être contrôlés et protégés au mieux . 
FRENCH Eurocontrol doit satisfaire aux exigences en matière de sécurité , mais il convient également de créer l ' environnement nécessaire pour atteindre cet objectif . 
FRENCH Le débat est clos . 
FRENCH Le vote aura lieu aujourd ' - hui à 12 heures . 
FRENCH Sécurité et santé des travailleuses enceintes au travail 
FRENCH L ' - ordre du jour appelle le rapport ( A5 - 0155 / 2000 ) de Mme Damião , au nom de la commission de l ' emploi et des affaires sociales , sur le rapport de la Commission sur la transposition de la directive 92 / 85 / CEE du Conseil du 19 octobre 1992 concernant la mise en & # x0153 ; uvre de mesures visant à promouvoir l ' amélioration de la sécurité et de la santé des travailleuses enceintes , accouchées ou allaitantes au travail ( COM ( 1999 ) 100 -- C5 - 0158 / 1999 -- 1999 / 2151 ( COS ) ) . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , je considère que l ' instrument législatif que nous analysons aujourd ' hui dans le rapport d ' évaluation envoyé par la Commission a achevé son parcours en ce qui concerne les droits contractuels et les systèmes de sécurité sociale . 
FRENCH Bien que des milliers de travailleurs de pays de l ' Union européenne en ont bénéficié - ; il s ' avère cependant dépassé . 
FRENCH Il est dépassé parce que la convention de l ' OIT , qui date de 1952, vient d ' être révisée et que la plupart des pays du monde devrait améliorer substantiellement la protection de la maternité . 
FRENCH On attendait bien sûr de l ' Union , et on attend toujours d ' elle , qu ' elle reste socialement plus avancée dans cette matière comme dans d ' autres . 
FRENCH Mais tout n ' est pas dépassé puisqu ' en matière d ' organisation du travail , la transposition de la directive s ' est avérée imparfaite et sa mise en & # x0153 ; uvre encore plus . 
FRENCH Je dirais par exemple que certains pays ne respectent même pas une période minimale de récupération de la mère , dont les spécialistes disent qu ' elle est de 45 jours pour un accouchement normal , à un poste de travail normal . 
FRENCH Il y a donc des pays qui ne respectent pas ces règles sous prétexte de garantir une option pour les femmes . 
FRENCH Nous pensons qu ' il faut garantir aux femmes l ' option de jouir d ' un bon congé de maternité , à partager avec le père , mais que le congé en ce qui concerne le risque pour leur propre santé doit être évalué et garanti . 
FRENCH Elle n ' est pas articulée et elle fait retomber sur l ' emploi des femmes un anathème injuste , selon lequel les risques de la maternité s ' appliquent exclusivement aux jeunes en âge de procréer . 
FRENCH Ces risques sont réellement sous - évalués et ne doivent pas retomber sur l ' employeur ou constituer une obligation pour l ' employeur uniquement lorsque le médecin informe l ' employeur de l ' état dans lequel se trouve la travailleuse . 
FRENCH Premièrement , parce que c ' est trop tard - : les risques de radiation , des milieux chimiques et des positions imparfaites produisent leurs conséquences néfastes pour la santé de la femme et du f & # x0153 ; tus au cours des premières semaines . 
FRENCH Deuxièmement parce qu ' ils ne protègent pas la santé génésique des hommes et des femmes , alors que l ' étendue du problème de la stérilité est déjà appréciable aujourd ' hui dans l ' Union , plus de 11 - % des foyers européens sont concernés , à cause des styles de vie engendrés par notre organisation économique et aussi du fait qu ' elle n ' offre pas de protection contre ces dangers - : je prendrais pour exemple les températures extrêmes à l ' origine de la stérilité féminine et masculine . 
FRENCH Il serait bon que l ' Union , qui réunit aujourd ' hui les conditions , élabore et applique une législation dans ce sens . 
FRENCH Quant au congé , nous connaissons les coûts que son extension entraîne pour l ' activité économique et nous savons qu ' ils sont bien plus élevés pour l ' emploi des femmes . 
FRENCH Mais nous savons aussi que les techniciens de la santé recommandent cinq mois , au minimum , pour que l ' enfant reste à la maison protégé du monde extérieur et , surtout , qu ' il grandisse dans un environnement psychoaffectif favorable , qui lui apporte l ' équilibre nécessaire à sa croissance en toute sécurité , car il a besoin de ses parents . 
FRENCH Je dirais encore que la directive doit envisager aussi l ' économie informelle et les contrats de travail atypiques . 
FRENCH Enfin , la Commission nous dira -- j ' espère -- ce qu ' elle entend faire à ce sujet , maintenant qu ' elle tient une base juridique étendue , avec l ' article 13 au lieu de l ' ancien article 18, qui lui permet de répondre en toute sécurité à d ' autres aspects auxquels le rapport fait référence . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , chers collègues , Mme Damião a rédigé un très bon rapport et y a bien intégré l ' avis que j ' ai rendu pour la commission des droits de la femme et de l ' égalité des chances . 
FRENCH L ' amélioration de la sécurité et de la santé des femmes enceintes , accouchées ou allaitantes au travail est pour toutes ces personnes d ' une importance toute particulière , tant pour la protection de la femme que pour celle de l ' enfant avant la naissance . 
FRENCH Il s ' agit d ' un thème général de société et il convient dès lors de l ' aborder de manière consciencieuse . 
FRENCH Le rapport de la Commission relatif à la directive de 1992 traite uniquement de la transposition technique de la directive et n ' aborde pas la modification partielle des situations d ' emploi ainsi que l ' évolution du rôle de la femme dans la société . 
FRENCH Le nombre de familles monoparentales a changé et les femmes tendent de plus en plus à l ' indépendance économique . 
FRENCH Il subsiste un besoin important d ' amélioration de la législation . 
FRENCH Cela vaut pour les mesures préventives relatives à la santé sur le lieu de travail , tant pour les femmes que pour les enfants avant la naissance . 
FRENCH Le congé de maternité après la naissance devrait être de huit semaines au minimum . 
FRENCH L ' aide financière doit être réglementée clairement , tant pour la durée du congé de maternité qu ' après l ' accouchement . 
FRENCH La question de la reprise du travail nécessite également quelques clarifications . 
FRENCH Toutes les réglementations nécessaires ne peuvent en aucun cas provoquer un handicap . Elles ne peuvent pas non plus diminuer les chances des femmes sur le marché du travail . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , chers collègues , la directive 92 / 85 / CEE du Conseil datant du 19 octobre 1992, dont nous débattons aujourd ' hui de l ' exécution , est une des plus importantes dans le domaine de la protection technique et sanitaire des travailleuses et travailleurs . 
FRENCH Je me rappelle encore très bien son élaboration et les problèmes dont nous avons autrefois discuté . 
FRENCH Il est positif de constater que , malgré le différend sur la base juridique , nous avons à cette époque reconnu son importance pour les travailleuses dans le marché intérieur et que nous avons accompli un premier pas en vue d ' établir des normes minimales pour la protection des travailleuses enceintes et des jeunes mères . 
FRENCH Le rapport de la Commission dont il est question aujourd ' hui continue de montrer des insuffisances en ce qui concerne l ' application de la directive et doit par conséquent renforcer nos efforts en vue d ' assurer légalement et effectivement la protection des femmes au cours d ' une période particulière de leur existence . 
FRENCH Il est en effet regrettable pour une société de devoir constater que ce domaine précis nécessite une attention accrue de notre part . 
FRENCH C ' est la raison pour laquelle je soutiens l ' approche visant à réviser au plus vite la directive . 
FRENCH Nous n ' y parviendrons cependant pas avant la fin de l ' année 2000 . 
FRENCH Certaines des exigences qui doivent figurer dans la proposition de modification de la directive sont reprises dans les propositions d ' amendement dont il est question et auxquelles le groupe PPE peut partiellement donner suite . 
FRENCH Cela concerne en premier lieu la demande d ' une interdiction stricte de licenciement au cours des congés de maternité et la garantie que les femmes retrouvent à la fin de ces congés leur ancien emploi ou un emploi comparable et que les atteintes à cette prière seront sanctionnées efficacement . 
FRENCH Toute autre situation impliquerait une sanction pour les femmes qui veulent ou doivent négocier les conditions de leur activité et de leur maternité , voire un désavantage injustifié dans leur vie professionnelle et privée . 
FRENCH Au regard de l ' élargissement à l ' est et de la protection dans ces pays , je voudrais faire remarquer que le marché intérieur ne peut en rien se développer au détriment des femmes enceintes et des jeunes mères . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , Madame la Commissaire , je commencerai par remercier le rapporteur pour son travail approfondi , sérieux et courageux . 
FRENCH La directive de 1992, dont nous évaluons aujourd ' hui l ' application dans les États membres , a justement pour objectif d ' établir des mesures minimales pour promouvoir la sécurité et la santé sur le lieu de travail des travailleuses enceintes et allaitantes . 
FRENCH Le rapport d ' évaluation de la Commission montre que la directive s ' est avérée utile , qu ' elle a amélioré dans plusieurs États membres certains aspects du problème tels que les congés pour raisons de santé et de sécurité , etc . Ces considérations de caractère général mises à part , nous partageons l ' avis critique du rapporteur sur l ' évaluation de la Commission . 
FRENCH Ce rapport est présenté en retard par rapport au calendrier établi et il se penche presque exclusivement sur les aspects juridiques et techniques . 
FRENCH Le retard du dépôt d ' un rapport d ' évaluation -- je rappellerai qu ' en raison du faible niveau des normes minimales prévues , on n ' a obtenu l ' assentiment de l ' Italie qu ' en échange d ' un engagement d ' une révision rapide - - aurait dû déboucher sur une proposition de la Commission dans le sens d ' une révision de la directive , en particulier sur certains aspects que le rapporteur a rappelés - : la durée du congé de maternité , la prolongation du congé de maternité dans les situations à risques , une définition plus précise du concept d ' indemnité adéquate , l ' interdiction du licenciement pendant la grossesse et le congé de maternité assortie de sanctions efficaces , l ' interdiction de toute forme de discrimination en ce qui concerne les parcours professionnels et l ' amélioration des conditions de travail , la prise de toutes les mesures nécessaires pour protéger la santé et la sécurité de la mère et du f & # x0153 ; tus , sans préjudice pour le droit au travail et la carrière professionnelle , et la promotion de l ' allaitement maternel par le biais de mesures diversifiées . 
FRENCH Eu égard à toutes les compatibilités nécessaires , ce qui devrait inspirer Commission et les États membres , c ' est le principe de non - discrimination et la reconnaissance de la maternité et de la paternité comme des droits fondamentaux et essentiels à l ' équilibre de la société . 
FRENCH Il est important , Monsieur le Président , que les femmes puissent bénéficier de cadres favorables et sûrs en période de grossesse et d ' accouchement afin que la mère et l ' enfant puissent démarrer sur de bonnes bases et il est aussi important que la grossesse et la maternité ne constituent pas un obstacle pour les femmes sur le marché de l ' emploi . 
FRENCH Nous disposons d ' une directive datant de 1992 et établissant des droits minimums en matière de congé de maternité et d ' indemnités financières dont peuvent bénéficier les femmes lorsqu ' une maternité les éloigne du marché du travail . 
FRENCH La Commission vient de passer en revue l ' application de cette directive dans les États membres et le rapport de Mme Damião souligne très justement que le rapport de la Commission se limite à faire un relevé technique et factuel de l ' application de la directive sans évaluer dans quelle mesure elle offre concrètement aux femmes enceintes ou aux femmes qui viennent d ' accoucher de meilleures conditions . 
FRENCH Le rapporteur estime donc que le rapport de la Commission ne donne pas une base suffisante pour réviser la directive . 
FRENCH Je partage totalement l ' avis du rapporteur sur ce point . 
FRENCH C ' est pourquoi je suis également opposée à toute demande actuelle de révision de la directive . 
FRENCH Je ne pense pas que nous devions exiger une proposition de nouvelle directive , qui conférerait le droit à de plus longs congés obligatoires et qui contiendrait des exigences plus détaillées en matière d ' indemnités financières sans prendre dûment en considération les différences existant dans les systèmes sociaux des États membres . 
FRENCH Les règles actuelles présentent une grande flexibilité et la plupart des pays garantissent aux femmes de meilleures conditions que les règles communes . 
FRENCH On peut se demander si de nouvelles règles auraient vraiment un impact concret . 
FRENCH Le congé de maternité et l ' octroi d ' une aide financière constituent dans tous les cas une priorité relevant de la compétence de chaque État . 
FRENCH Je pense , par contre , qu ' il serait bon de disposer d ' un meilleur aperçu de la situation concrète dans les différents pays afin que les gouvernements puissent s ' échanger leurs expériences -- bonnes et mauvaises -- et ainsi s ' inspirer mutuellement . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , chers collègues , la Commission européenne devra introduire fin 2000 une proposition de directive impliquant des mesures destinées aux travailleuses enceintes , accouchées et allaitantes au travail . 
FRENCH L ' évaluation des mesures existantes accuse déjà quatre ans de retard et ne répond pas aux exigences posées à l ' - époque par le Parlement européen . Cette évaluation avait pour objectif d ' opérer une modification . 
FRENCH Le groupe des Verts / Alliance libre européenne souhaite l ' - élargissement de la protection . 
FRENCH Le rapport fait surtout mention de points institutionnels . 
FRENCH En pratique , il est fréquent que les femmes fassent l ' objet d ' une discrimination pendant cette période , et ce malgré les droits dont elles bénéficient en théorie . 
FRENCH C ' est pourquoi nous réclamons un renversement de la charge de la preuve . 
FRENCH L ' employeur devra ainsi démontrer que le licenciement ou le changement de situation n ' - est pas consécutif à la grossesse de l ' - employée . 
FRENCH Enfin , nous voudrions demander à la Commission d ' expliquer pourquoi les États membres n ' ont pas adopté le même point de vue lors de la dernière assemblée de l ' OIT . 
FRENCH Pour quelles raisons le Royaume - Uni s ' est - il abstenu lors du vote final , une attitude qui , étant donné la procédure en vigueur , équivaut à voter contre - ? 
FRENCH Pour conclure , nous voudrions remercier Madame Damião pour le travail qu ' elle a accompli . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , à l ' heure où l ' Europe souligne , avec la réunion de Pékin - + 5 à New York , son rôle pionnier pour la mise en & # x0153 ; uvre du principe d ' égalité entre les femmes et les hommes , il apparaît tout aussi important de garantir leur liberté . 
FRENCH Cette liberté passe par un droit de protection spécifique des femmes , droit toujours lié à leur corps , notamment avec la maternité , plus précisément avec la grossesse . 
FRENCH Nous nous félicitons donc de l ' excellent rapport de Mme - Damião , qui souligne l ' urgence de réviser la directive de 1992 . 
FRENCH Sa demande d ' interdiction formelle des licenciements pendant la grossesse est fondamentale , et je m ' arrêterai uniquement sur ce point . 
FRENCH Il me paraît dangereux de laisser à l ' employeur une marge de man & # x0153 ; uvre en la matière , qu ' il saura toujours utiliser à son profit . 
FRENCH Aujourd ' hui , avec la révision de la Convention 103, l ' OIT nivelle par le bas la protection de la femme enceinte , en acceptant certains licenciements dits sans rapport avec la grossesse . 
FRENCH L ' Europe , avec le rapport de Mme - Damião et la révision de la directive , se doit d ' être une référence politique pour les droits des femmes du monde entier . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , chers collègues , je commencerais par féliciter notre collègue Elisa Damião pour son magnifique travail à l ' occasion de ce rapport , auquel nous avons tous contribué avec plaisir en commission , non seulement en le soutenant entièrement , mais aussi en introduisant certains amendements qui ont été inclus dans la version définitive . 
FRENCH L ' adoption de ce rapport représente pour nous un moment important à la fin de cette session législative pour quatre raisons fondamentales - : 
FRENCH premièrement , parce qu ' il est inacceptable que la femme soit socialement pénalisée ou discriminée pour cause de grossesse et de maternité - ; 
FRENCH deuxièmement , parce que nous devons nous consacrer de manière plus vigoureuse aux problèmes des risques pour la santé de la mère et de l ' enfant , qui découlent des conditions d ' exercice du travail - ; 
FRENCH troisièmement , parce que dans la société moderne le thème de la conciliation entre la vie personnelle et l ' activité professionnelle , entre la famille et le travail , est toujours plus important pour ceux qui , comme nous , se préoccupent de la réalité des personnes . 
FRENCH quatrièmement , parce que les politiques de maternité doivent être cohérentes avec les politiques de la famille et de la natalité en général et , surtout , au moment où la crise du vieillissement de la population européenne nécessite l ' attention croissante des États membres . 
FRENCH Nous allons débattre ici aussi de certains amendements . Notre position doit s ' inspirer de l ' équilibre de ce rapport . 
FRENCH C ' est pourquoi nous ne soutenons pas tous les amendements , car nous estimons que l ' équilibre du rapport est meilleur que certains pas suggérés par les amendements . 
FRENCH Nous soutiendrons les amendements proposés par nos collègues conservateurs britanniques , par notre collègue Bushill - Matthews , qui attire l ' attention sur la question des petites et moyennes entreprises , qui doivent être prises en considération dans la réglementation , à la fois au niveau communautaire et national . 
FRENCH Mais , en contrepartie , nous souhaiterions que les conservateurs britanniques soutiennent le rapport , car , s ' il est vrai que certaines conclusions de la présidence portugaise attirent l ' attention sur ce point , je voudrais souligner que dans le texte final du sommet de Feira , on insiste , au paragraphe 36, sur l ' importance de la responsabilité sociale des entreprises . 
FRENCH Or , pour nous , démocrates - chrétiens et conservateurs portugais , c ' est un thème très important - : nous pensons que les entreprises ont également une responsabilité sociale qui doit être développée . 
FRENCH Il me reste à ajouter que nous sollicitons des votes séparés pour améliorer le rapport sur les points qui ont donné lieu à quelques extravagances . 
FRENCH À nos yeux , la grossesse n ' est pas une ressource sociale . Nous sollicitons aussi le vote séparé sur un autre point pour améliorer le rapport . 
FRENCH Enfin , je lance un appel à tous les démocrates - chrétiens afin qu ' ils soutiennent le rapport de ma collègue socialiste . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , je voudrais d ' emblée regretter l ' incurie de la Commission qui n ' a rien fait jusqu ' à ce jour en vue de la révision , de l ' évaluation et de la notification de la directive 92 / 85 sur la protection de la maternité . 
FRENCH Malgré les préjudices importants pour les femmes - mères découlant de cette omission , à quelque chose malheur est bon et ce rapport brillant de notre collègue Elisa Damião en est la démonstration , car il permet au Parlement européen d ' aller plus loin . 
FRENCH Ce rapport clarifie des concepts , harmonise des normes au niveau communautaire , crée des responsabilités partagées , prend en considération de nouveaux risques de l ' organisation actuelle du travail , fournit des aides à la croissance démographique dans une Europe vieillissante et considère la grossesse comme un état naturel de la mère qui doit être respecté et protégé . 
FRENCH Il consigne expressément les droits des travailleuses indépendantes et du télétravail , il insiste sur les préoccupations accrues concernant les familles monoparentales , toujours plus nombreuses en Europe . 
FRENCH En ce qui concerne les pays candidats à l ' adhésion , la Communauté européenne doit s ' efforcer d ' obtenir leur solidarité pour adopter le plus vite possible les mesures préconisées par ce rapport , car les résistances pourraient s ' avérer ici plus nombreuses et difficiles à surmonter . 
FRENCH Enfin , je voudrais tirer la sonnette d ' alarme sur le point 9 de ce rapport , car les mesures protégeant les femmes dans leur maternité , comme les très longs congés pour accouchement , peuvent avoir des effets pervers , les employeurs n ' ayant pas avantage à engager des femmes et préférant embaucher des hommes . 
FRENCH La Commission doit donc mettre en place un système de détection des fraudes et d ' application de pénalités lourdes concernant les entreprises qui opèrent ce type de discrimination . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , adopter une directive ne signifie pas nécessairement que la réalité soit telle que nous le souhaitons . 
FRENCH Nous en avons ici un bon exemple . 
FRENCH Selon l ' évaluation faite par la Commission , la situation des femmes enceintes en matière de sécurité et de santé semble très bonne , mais la réalité est - elle la même que sur papier - ? 
FRENCH Je n ' en suis pas si sûre . 
FRENCH Les rythmes de travail n ' ont jamais été aussi élevés , l ' efficacité doit être maximale et les femmes enceintes doivent travailler comme si elles ne l ' étaient pas . 
FRENCH Cela engendre du stress , ce qui est néfaste pour la femme enceinte comme pour le f & # x0153 ; tus . 
FRENCH Nous le savons , car des études le démontrent . 
FRENCH Le Parlement européen en tant que législateur et les députés en tant que représentants de la population ont le droit de savoir si la législation que nous adoptons fonctionne aussi sur le plan pratique . 
FRENCH Cet exemple montre , selon moi , les lacunes de la Commission dans ce domaine . 
FRENCH Le Parlement doit donc lancer un message à la Commission selon lequel le travail réalisé n ' est pas suffisant . 
FRENCH Il doit être remanié . 
FRENCH Nous devons savoir si la législation fonctionne . 
FRENCH Les analyses purement juridiques effectuées par la Commission montrent déjà la nécessité d ' offrir une meilleure protection . 
FRENCH Nous devons absolument disposer d ' une meilleure définition de la notion de prestation adéquate et nous devons disposer de règles plus strictes en matière de licenciement en période de grossesse . 
FRENCH Le modèle social européen se caractérise par un niveau de protection élevé . 
FRENCH Cela doit être un domaine -- et cette remarque s ' adresse au groupe libéral dont le point de vue est totalement différent -- à propos duquel l ' UE doit avoir une grande influence . 
FRENCH Ce domaine ne peut être confié à la compétence des différents États membres . 
FRENCH Ce domaine doit donc faire l ' objet d ' une modernisation et des actions doivent être menées . 
FRENCH On ne peut confier ce secteur à la compétence des États membres - ; l ' Europe doit s ' en occuper conjointement . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , nombreuses sont les femmes qui font actuellement l ' objet de discrimination sur leur lieu de travail . 
FRENCH Nous savons que beaucoup d ' entre elles perdent leur emploi alors qu ' elles sont enceintes . 
FRENCH C ' est tout à fait inacceptable - ! 
FRENCH Le rapport Damião comporte beaucoup de bonnes propositions , mais les libéraux suédois ont néanmoins des objections fondamentales à l ' encontre du rapport . 
FRENCH Je voudrais dire à mon prédécesseur , qui s ' est exprimé ici tout récemment , que nous devrions nous interroger plus souvent au sein de ce Parlement - : au fond , de quoi doit s ' occuper le Parlement européen - ? 
FRENCH Jusqu ' où devons - nous aller - ? 
FRENCH Nous croyons au principe de subsidiarité , selon lequel les décisions doivent être prises le plus près possible de l ' intéressé . 
FRENCH La politique sociale est un domaine dans lequel l ' UE doit avoir une compétence limitée , en dehors de ce qui concerne la libre circulation des citoyens dans l ' Union . 
FRENCH Chaque État membre doit avoir l ' entière responsabilité et le droit de décider lui - même de son système de sécurité sociale . 
FRENCH Le congé de maternité et les allocations familiales sont des exemples de problèmes qui ne sont pas directement transfrontaliers . 
FRENCH Nous ne croyons pas en une législation commune détaillée . 
FRENCH Cela n ' empêche toutefois pas les États membres de collaborer et d ' échanger des idées dans le domaine social . 
FRENCH Le rapport Damião demande légitimement la promotion de la sécurité des travailleuses dans toute l ' Europe , une meilleure mobilité et un meilleur fonctionnement du marché intérieur , ainsi qu ' un droit de décision national sur les détails dans le système politico - social . 
FRENCH À ce propos , le rapport présente un déséquilibre . 
FRENCH Je connais plusieurs femmes qui ont repris le travail plus tôt . La liberté de choix doit subsister - ! 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , Mme Elisa Damião , responsable de ce rapport , a raison de critiquer la Commission pour le retard pris dans le processus de révision de la directive actuelle . 
FRENCH Il est juste que le rapport regrette que la Commission n ' ait pas respecté le calendrier défini par la directive et qu ' il n ' y ait pas eu d ' évaluation de l ' efficacité de sa pratique , en insistant sur la nécessité d ' une proposition de révision urgente , en ce qui concerne l ' inclusion de différentes mesures que nous soutenons pour l ' essentiel et avec lesquelles nous sommes d ' accord . 
FRENCH De plus , au cours du débat en commissions parlementaires , nous avons présenté plusieurs propositions visant à garantir le droit obligatoire à des pauses durant le travail pour l ' allaitement , de non - discrimination des femmes enceintes , accouchées ou allaitantes sur les lieux de travail , notamment en termes salariaux , de progression de carrière , d ' emploi , en attirant particulièrement l ' attention sur la situation des travailleuses sous contrats à durée déterminée ou atypiques . 
FRENCH D ' une manière générale , les propositions ont été acceptées à l ' exception de celle concernant le paiement de la prestation pendant la suspension de l ' activité et le congé de maternité , qui doit correspondre à 100 - % du salaire antérieur et être pris en considération pour les effets de l ' acquisition des droits à la retraite . 
FRENCH J ' espère que le Parlement approuvera cette proposition . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , si l ' intention de la Commission était d ' améliorer effectivement la sécurité et la santé des travailleuses enceintes ou accouchées , nous pouvons dire qu ' elle a manqué son objectif . 
FRENCH Le rapport aurait dû être présenté dès 1997 mais , quitte à être tardif , il aurait au moins pu remédier à la formulation peu claire de certains articles de la directive et définir les innombrables concepts flous qui ont suscité de multiples interprétations . 
FRENCH Sans parler , parmi les diverses données manquantes , des résultats des questionnaires envoyés aux États membres et des résultats de la coordination législative et des activités afférentes du Centre européen de normalisation . 
FRENCH Dès 1992, le Parlement européen jugeait nécessaire de réexaminer cette directive . C ' est pourquoi aujourd ' hui , vu la nécessité d ' une économie sociale de marché , on partage les objectifs du rapport de Mme - Damião - : lier les politiques en matière de maternité à la politique de la famille et éliminer les flous en assurant l ' amélioration concrète et quantifiée des droits des travailleuses enceintes et accouchées . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , Madame la Vice - présidente de la Commission , l ' - intégration de la femme dans le marché du travail est tel qu ' - à un moment donné de sa vie professionnelle , lorsqu ' elle tombe enceinte , celle - ci doit parfois prendre des congés supplémentaires pour ne pas mettre en péril sa santé et celle de l ' - enfant qu ' - elle porte . 
FRENCH La grossesse est un état naturel chez la femme que la société doit respecter , défendre et protéger . 
FRENCH La société doit particulièrement protéger les travailleuses en leur garantissant leur poste de travail . 
FRENCH L ' - intégration de la femme dans le monde du travail est une réalité que l ' - on ne peut pas remettre en question et il ne faut pas mettre les femmes dans une situation où elles sont obligées de choisir entre avoir des enfants ou garder son emploi en raison des complications qu ' - une grossesse pourrait occasionner . 
FRENCH Le vieillissement de la population , conjugué au faible taux de natalité de l ' Union européenne , rend ce sujet extrêmement important pour tous les partenaires sociaux . 
FRENCH Il est tout aussi important de protéger la femme enceinte que de lui permettre d ' - allaiter , ce qui est bon pour la santé de la mère et de l ' - enfant . 
FRENCH Protéger la maternité et l ' - allaitement ne peut pas être considéré comme une inégalité entre homme et femme car la maternité est exclusive aux femmes et c ' - est la femme qu ' - il faut protéger , bien que les hommes puissent bénéficier d ' - une partie des congés parentaux . 
FRENCH La directive doit inclure un congé minimum de 20 semaines , assorti d ' - une période obligatoire d ' - au moins huit semaines après l ' - accouchement . 
FRENCH Il faut garantir un salaire minimum équivalent à 80 - % sans perte des droits à pension . 
FRENCH L ' - interdiction des licenciements durant la grossesse doit être appliqué à la lettre . 
FRENCH La grossesse ne doit en aucun cas être une cause de discrimination de la femme . 
FRENCH La commission des droits de la femme dénonce , à l ' unanimité , dans son avis le retard de l ' - intervention de la Commission , ce qui est d ' - autant plus grave si l ' - on prend en considération que cette période s ' - étend de 1992 à 2000, la période qui a connu les plus grands changements dans l ' - accès de la femme au monde du travail . 
FRENCH Par ailleurs , nous pensons que les déficiences de cette législation risque d ' entraîner un phénomène très grave , à savoir la désaffection à l ' égard de la maternité chez les jeunes . 
FRENCH La nouvelle réglementation doit être claire et progressiste . 
FRENCH Elle doit envisager les nouvelles situations professionnelles et la nouvelle situation familiale des familles monoparentales . 
FRENCH La travailleuse enceinte doit pouvoir disposer d ' - une protection adéquate , spécifique à son état , mais cela ne doit pas aboutir à une discrimination à son égard ni réduire ses chances d ' accéder à un emploi , bien au contraire . 
FRENCH Il faut être capable de trouver les moyens adéquats pour que l ' - allaitement soit compatible avec le travail . 
FRENCH Le rapporteur a écarté cette déclaration , affirmant en fait qu ' elle n ' est pas pertinente et que la directive n ' est pas allée assez loin . 
FRENCH J ' apprécie certaines suggestions contenues dans son rapport . 
FRENCH Je la félicite pour l ' enthousiasme avec lequel elle a poursuivi son programme . 
FRENCH Toutefois , en général , ce n ' est pas un programme ayant trait à la santé et la sécurité . 
FRENCH C ' est un programme qui s ' inscrit tout à fait dans la tradition socialiste . 
FRENCH Premièrement , son rapport a pour but d ' harmoniser la politique sociale au sein de l ' UE au lieu d ' en laisser les détails aux États membres - - point qu ' a souligné avec force M. - Olle Schmidt plus tôt lors de ce débat . 
FRENCH Deuxièmement , il vise à améliorer les termes et conditions d ' emploi pour les travailleuses enceintes et les nouvelles mères par le biais de congés de maternité supplémentaires et de niveaux de salaires minimum spécifiés . 
FRENCH Aucune de ces deux mesures ne constitue de véritables questions de santé ou de sécurité . 
FRENCH Elle propose des solutions pour lesquelles il n ' existe ni de problème de santé , ni de problème de sécurité . 
FRENCH En tant que conservateurs britanniques , nous confirmons que nous nous préoccupons de la santé et de la sécurité de tous les travailleurs , en particulier des groupes vulnérables . 
FRENCH Nous confirmons notre engagement à la subsidiarité en ce qui concerne les termes et les conditions d ' emploi . 
FRENCH Toutefois , nous confirmons également que nous nous soucions également d ' aider davantage de femmes à acquérir un emploi plutôt que de dresser des barrières au détriment des emplois féminins . 
FRENCH Dès lors , nous invitons instamment l ' Assemblée à rejeter ce rapport . 
FRENCH À cet égard , nous pouvons nous étonner que la Commission ait attendu aussi longtemps pour nous présenter son rapport d ' évaluation sur la mise en & # x0153 ; uvre de cette directive et des propositions d ' amélioration des conditions d ' exercice du congé de maternité . 
FRENCH Il me semble que , dans cette proposition de révision de la directive que nous demandons à la Commission de présenter rapidement , il est essentiel de préserver la réalité de trois principes fondamentaux pour la femme et son épanouissement - : l ' interdiction du licenciement de la femme enceinte ou en congé de maternité , le droit à un congé minimum obligatoire et la rémunération de ce congé comptabilisée dans les droits à la pension . 
FRENCH Il me semble par ailleurs que cette nouvelle directive devrait comporter des améliorations substantielles , notamment la possibilité offerte à toute femme de bénéficier d ' un congé de maternité porté à vingt semaines , sans obligation pour celle - ci de le prendre dans son intégralité , mais avec obligation pour l ' employeur de le proposer et avec une obligation minimale de huit semaines après l ' accouchement , afin de favoriser le développement du lien mère - enfant . 
FRENCH En ce qui concerne les grossesses à risque et l ' arrivée au foyer d ' enfants handicapés , il est évident qu ' il faudra prévoir des propositions adaptées , offrant , compte tenu des spécificités , une extension de la durée du congé de maternité . 
FRENCH En ce qui concerne la définition de la prestation , il apparaît que le chiffre à prendre en considération doit être d ' au moins 80 - % du salaire précédent , y compris dans la constitution des droits à la pension . 
FRENCH Enfin , il est souhaitable que ce texte renforce corrélativement l ' interdiction formelle du licenciement pendant la grossesse et le congé de maternité . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , je voudrais féliciter le rapporteur pour son travail de sauvegarde des intérêts des femmes à un moment particulier de leur vie , à savoir la grossesse et la maternité . 
FRENCH Il représente un grand pas en avant , non seulement en faveur des femmes en général , mais il assure surtout le droit à fonder une famille et en défend les valeurs fondamentales . 
FRENCH Le parti populaire européen a toujours estimé que le concept de la famille , en tant que noyau fondamental de la société , constitue la base de la construction européenne et que les valeurs chrétiennes dont il s ' inspire en imposent le respect . 
FRENCH À une époque où l ' Europe est en butte à des problèmes démographiques , il faut que les institutions donnent un signal fort capable de rassurer les femmes qui travaillent et qui doivent jouir de la sérénité et des garanties nécessaires pour les décider à devenir mères . 
FRENCH Voilà pourquoi elles doivent bénéficier d ' une période de repos adaptée avant l ' accouchement , et encore plus après , quand elles ont un enfant à allaiter , à aider à grandir et à élever . 
FRENCH J ' ajouterai qu ' en l ' occurrence , il faut également garantir aux travailleuses indépendantes un droit aux indemnités de maternité , qui doivent être couvertes par des fonds nationaux sectoriels à base contributive . 
FRENCH Mesdames et Messieurs les Députés , je vous demande un peu de silence , non pas religieux mais parlementaire , afin que nous puissions écouter avec attention la commissaire De Palacio . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , je voudrais d ' - emblée féliciter Mme Damião pour le magnifique rapport qu ' - elle a élaboré , bien qu ' - il contienne une série de critiques quant à l ' - action de la Commission . 
FRENCH Critiques que je dois accepter , car elles sont justifiées et fondées sur des faits réels . 
FRENCH Mais je dois donner une justification et une explication . 
FRENCH Pour rédiger ce texte , la Commission a dû compter sur les documents fournis par les différents États et , malheureusement , ces documents n ' - ont pas été fournis avec la célérité et l ' - efficacité souhaitée par la Commission . 
FRENCH C ' est ce qui explique le retard dans la présentation . 
FRENCH La législation communautaire et la jurisprudence de la Cour de justice des Communautés européennes n ' - offrent pas encore un cadre suffisant mais il s ' - agit indubitablement d ' - éléments clés pour progresser dans ce domaine essentiel qu ' - est la garantie des droits des travailleuses enceintes . 
FRENCH La directive 92 / 85 a été adoptée avant le traité d ' - Amsterdam . 
FRENCH Nous pensons que c ' - est précisément maintenant , après le Traité , que nous pouvons aller encore au - delà et progresser . 
FRENCH Tel est notre objectif et c ' est pourquoi nous allons préparer un rapport complémentaire sur la mise en pratique de cette directive , rapport que nous présenterons en 2002 . 
FRENCH Comme vous le savez très bien , la Commission a approuvé la semaine dernière son nouvel agenda social pour la période 2000 - 2005 et c ' - est dans ce cadre que nous espérons proposer une solution adéquate à ce problème concret et à toute une série d ' - autres questions . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , c ' est la dernière fois cette semaine que nous serons aussi nombreux dans cette salle . 
FRENCH J ' aimerais attirer votre attention et celle de mes collègues sur un point très regrettable . 
FRENCH Ce Parlement jouit d ' une excellente réputation auprès de la presse , car depuis vingt ans déjà , le Parlement parvenait à publier deux fois par jour , tous les jours , un communiqué à l ' attention de la presse écrite . 
FRENCH Ce système a fait l ' objet de modifications . 
FRENCH J ' ai observé le fonctionnement de ce système pendant la semaine qui vient de s ' écouler . 
FRENCH Le communiqué de presse relatif à la mémoire de l ' ancien président M. - Pflimlin n ' a été publié qu ' à 23h22 lundi soir . Le rapport sur le Sommet de Feira a été dépêché mardi matin . 
FRENCH Le compte rendu sur la séance consacrée à l ' - octroi de la décharge de mardi matin a été envoyé mardi soir à 21h12 . Le rapport sur le Zimbabwe du mardi après - midi a été communiqué le soir à 22h55 . 
FRENCH Le rapport sur la Banque centrale européenne de mercredi matin a été envoyé à 20h00 le même jour . 
FRENCH Par conséquent , la presse écrite se trouve dans l ' - incapacité de se prononcer sur ces événements . En effet , à ces heures tardives , les rédactions sont déjà fermées et nous fournissons des nouvelles désuètes . 
FRENCH Je voudrais vous inviter , Monsieur le Président , à revenir à l ' ancien système et à veiller à ce que les communiqués de presse quotidiens paraissent non seulement à temps , mais qu ' ils donnent également un aperçu complet et décentralisé par langue . 
FRENCH Je souhaiterais donc que vous priiez le Bureau d ' y réfléchir sérieusement et de revenir sur une décision prise antérieurement . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , je suis désolé de retarder le Parlement pour une motion de procédure alors que je ne suis pas sans savoir que nous devons encore procéder à nombreux votes . 
FRENCH Je viens juste de découvrir dans l ' agenda que le vote sur mon propre rapport doit être effectué en dernier lieu . 
FRENCH Je n ' ai pas été consulté à ce propos . 
FRENCH En effet , j ' avais signalé auparavant qu ' il devait avoir lieu le plus tôt possible lors de l ' heure des votes dans la mesure où - - et étant l ' un de ceux concernés par l ' aviation , je le sais mieux que la plupart d ' entre vous - - je ne dispose que d ' un vol pour rentrer chez moi . 
FRENCH Je suis donc bloqué - ! 
FRENCH Je m ' en remets donc à la merci du Parlement et lui demande s ' il serait possible de procéder au vote sur le rapport Atkins plus tôt , au lieu de le retarder - ? 
FRENCH Je prends acte de votre demande . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , si vous deviez donner suite à la demande de mon collègue , je propose alors d ' établir l ' ordre de classement des votes comme il a été conclu hier . 
FRENCH Monsieur Mombaur , je n ' ai pas accepté la demande de M. - Atkins , j ' en ai seulement pris acte . 
FRENCH L ' ordre des votes est établi et je n ' y dérogerai pas . Je suis désolé , mais le vote sur certains rapports aura lieu cet après - midi et non ce matin . 
FRENCH Nous passons maintenant à l ' heure des votes . 
FRENCH VOTES 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , vous l ' avez déjà déclaré - : le vote s ' effectue sur la base de propositions de compromis qui ont été dégagées lors d ' une concertation informelle avec la Commission . 
FRENCH Nous avons renvoyé le rapport le 16 mai et , entre - temps , nous avons pu y apporter certaines améliorations . 
FRENCH C ' est ce que nous a permis d ' atteindre ce type de procédure . 
FRENCH Je voudrais remercier la Commission pour sa collaboration dans ce domaine et j ' espère que les compromis dégagés seront également soutenus par la Commission au Conseil et qu ' ils ne pourront être rejetés qu ' à l ' unanimité . 
FRENCH Nous avons de ce fait atteint , la Commission et le Parlement réunis , une position forte , et j ' espère que cela servira également d ' exemple lors de la Conférence intergouvernementale de Nice . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , chers membres de la Commission , chers collègues , je voudrais remercier sincèrement non seulement la Commission , mais également tous les collaborateurs et les collègues de la commission de l ' agriculture , pour le compromis atteint . 
FRENCH Je vous demande d ' approuver ce dossier , sans quoi le Conseil du 16 et 17 juillet serait en mesure de prendre une décision sans l ' avis du Parlement , étant donné que , selon un arrêt de la Cour de justice des Communautés européennes , nous n ' aurions pas donné suite à une collaboration loyale . 
FRENCH C ' est pourquoi je vous demande de voter ce dossier aujourd ' hui . 
FRENCH Encore merci pour cette coopération . 
FRENCH Madame la Commissaire , voulez - vous répondre aux questions de M. - Maat - ? 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , Mesdames et Messieurs , je voudrais faire quelques brèves remarques . 
FRENCH La Commission émet juste quelques réserves quant aux termes juridiques utilisés et à l ' agencement des amendements de compromis dans le texte . 
FRENCH Mais sur le fond , ceux - ci seront soutenus par la Commission lors de la discussion avec le Conseil . 
FRENCH En ce qui concerne la proposition d ' amendement 46, je voudrais faire observer que le transfert volontaire de quotes - parts entre États membres ne peut être utilisé qu ' une seule fois , sans quoi cela pourrait engendrer des problèmes , fussent - ils mineurs , au niveau du système de distribution . 
FRENCH En ce qui concerne la proposition d ' amendement 51, la Commission prend acte des inquiétudes de la commission par rapport au niveau d ' aide pour les fibres longues , mais doit tout simplement faire remarquer une nouvelle fois qu ' il existe bien entendu des possibilités limitées d ' évaluation , si un rapport à ce sujet doit déjà être rédigé après la première année de mise en & # x0153 ; uvre de la réforme . 
FRENCH Au nom de mon collègue Fischler et de la Commission , je peux encore remercier le Parlement pour cette coopération et je pense que les propositions de compromis qui ont été élaborées ont contribué à une amélioration et surtout à une évolution de la situation . 
FRENCH ( Le Parlement adopte la résolution législative ) 
FRENCH apport sans débat ( A5 - 0182 / 2000 ) de Mme - Stauner , au nom de la commission de l ' emploi et des affaires sociales , sur le projet d ' orientations pour les différents types d ' actions innovatrices au sens de l ' article 22 du règlement ( CE ) n º - 1260 / 1999 du 21 juin 1999 -- Actions innovatrices au titre de l ' - article 6 du règlement FSE ( C5 - 0235 / 2000 -- 2000 / 2127 ( COS ) ) 
FRENCH ( Le Parlement adopte la résolution ) 
FRENCH * * * < / P > apport ( A5 - 0183 / 2000 ) de M. - Bourlanges , au nom de la commission des budgets , sur le projet de budget rectificatif et supplémentaire n º - 1 / 2000 au budget des Communautés européennes pour l ' exercice 2000 ( C5 - 0314 / 2000 ) 
FRENCH * * * < / P > apport ( A5 - 0192 / 2000 ) de M. - Virrankoski , au nom de la commission des budgets , sur le projet de budget rectificatif et supplémentaire n º 2 / 2000 des Communautés européennes pour l ' exercice 2000 ( SEC ( 2000 ) 1095 -- C5 - 0342 / 2000 ) 
FRENCH ( Le Parlement adopte la résolution ) 
FRENCH * * * < / P > apport ( A5 - 0190 / 2000 ) de Mme - Stauner , au nom de la commission du contrôle budgétaire , sur la décharge à donner à la Commission sur l ' exécution du budget général de l ' Union européenne pour l ' exercice 1998 ( SEC ( 1999 ) 412 -- C5 - 0006 / 1999 -- 1999 / 2050 ( DEC ) ) 
FRENCH ( Le Parlement adopte la résolution ) 
FRENCH * * * < / P > apport ( A5 - 0167 / 2000 ) de Mme - Rühle , au nom de la commission du contrôle budgétaire , sur l ' octroi de la décharge à la Commission sur la gestion financière des sixième , septième et huitième Fonds européens de développement pour l ' exercice 1998 ( COM ( 1999 ) 227 -- C5 - 0003 / 1999 -- 1999 / 2004 ( DEC ) ) 
FRENCH ( Le Parlement adopte la résolution ) 
FRENCH * * * < / P > apport ( A5 - 0189 / 2000 ) de M. - Kuhne , au nom de la commission du contrôle budgétaire , sur l ' octroi de la décharge sur l ' exécution du budget général des Communautés européennes pour l ' exercice 1998 Section I -- Parlement européen / Médiateur européen ( SEC ( 1999 ) 414 -- C5 - 0008 / 1999 -- 1999 / 2051 ( DEC ) ) 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , chers collègues , je regrette de devoir m ' exprimer en ce lieu sur le rapport Kuhne , mais il s ' agit d ' une affaire grave . 
FRENCH Comme chacun sait , on trouve dans ce rapport , qui traite de la décharge du budget du Parlement pour l ' année 1998, un chiffre 18 et un alinéa 6 . 
FRENCH Cet alinéa 6 parle de notre groupe politique . 
FRENCH Il existait un accord entre les présidents de groupe -- ceux - ci le confirmeront -- d ' après lequel nous ne traiterions pas des cas concrets dans ce rapport mais que nous nous efforcerions ensemble , là où subsistent certains problèmes , d ' y remédier . 
FRENCH Au vu de la formulation de ce rapport , j ' ai cependant déposé une proposition de compromis au nom de mon groupe politique et on m ' a signalé , il y a quelques jours , que ce compromis rencontrerait l ' approbation du rapporteur . 
FRENCH Sur ce , nous avons renoncé à déposer un amendement qui traiterait également des problèmes du groupe socialiste . 
FRENCH J ' entends à présent que le groupe socialiste ne soutiendra vraisemblablement pas l ' amendement 10 qui porte mon nom . 
FRENCH Je déclare ici avec gravité et regret que l ' accord des présidents de groupe n ' a pas été respecté , qu ' on a fait fi de l ' équité - ! 
FRENCH Je déclare également que mon groupe se sent dupé , pas moi personnellement , mais bel et bien l ' ensemble de mon groupe . 
FRENCH Si le groupe socialiste n ' approuve pas la proposition d ' amendement 10 -- c ' est son problème - , je signale que ce groupe prendra aujourd ' hui une décision très grave . 
FRENCH ( Applaudissements du groupe PPE - DE ) 
FRENCH Monsieur Poettering , comme vous le savez , les explications de vote se donnent après l ' heure des votes . 
FRENCH Nous ne pouvons pas lancer un débat maintenant , même si le sujet est fort délicat . 
FRENCH Oui , Monsieur le Président , je constate que la loi n ' - est pas la même pour tous car j ' - ai voulu faire une intervention dans le même sens , lors de la séance plénière précédente , sur la résolution sur Feira , et l ' - on ne m ' - y pas autorisé , si bien que j ' ai dû la faire à la fin . Je me souviens que les protestations étaient généralisées sur ces bancs pour que l ' - on respecte le règlement . 
FRENCH Aujourd ' - hui , il n ' - en a pas été de même . 
FRENCH Ce que je voudrais signaler au nom de mon groupe c ' - est qu ' - il est absolument inadmissible , premièrement , que l ' - on cite un accord inexistant et , deuxièmement , que l ' - on menace mon groupe . 
FRENCH J ' - accepte que l ' - on défende ses positions , mais il est inacceptable qu ' - à cette occasion , avant le vote , on menace mon groupe au sujet d ' - une question qui a été votée par la commission du contrôle budgétaire , avec les votes , aussi , des députés de ses bancs . 
FRENCH Par ailleurs , pour conclure , Monsieur le Président , je préciserai qu ' aucun groupe n ' est mentionné dans le rapport Kuhne . 
FRENCH ( Applaudissements du groupe PSE ) 
FRENCH Les propositions d ' amendement 1, 2, 3 et 5 ont pour but de supprimer l ' obligation d ' indiquer la catégorie de l ' animal sur les étiquettes . 
FRENCH Des discussions relatives à la définition des catégories ont déjà eu lieu en comité de gestion et la Commission à l ' espoir que des solutions qui satisferont la majorité , si pas la totalité des États membres , seront trouvées . 
FRENCH La Commission est dès lors d ' avis que l ' introduction des règles d ' identification le 1er septembre prochain est importante . 
FRENCH En relançant le débat , leur entrée en vigueur pourrait être retardée . 
FRENCH C ' est la raison pour laquelle les propositions d ' amendement ne peuvent être acceptées . 
FRENCH En ce qui concerne la proposition d ' amendement 4, la Commission est arrivée à la conclusion que la proposition de règlement exige déjà la garantie complète de l ' origine . 
FRENCH C ' est la raison pour laquelle la Commission ne voit aucune raison d ' accepter cette proposition d ' amendement et exprime également sa désapprobation à l ' égard de la proposition d ' amendement 6 . 
FRENCH Je fais toutefois observer au nom de la Commission qu ' il est possible dès à présent d ' indiquer la date de production de la viande hachée selon la procédure volontaire simplifiée . 
FRENCH Je tiens également à faire remarquer que M. Fischer a déclaré hier que , suite aux discussions qui se sont tenues au sein du Parlement lors de la première lecture , une grande majorité des amendements ont été acceptés et figurent déjà dans le texte . 
FRENCH ( Le Président déclare adoptée la position commune ainsi modifiée ) 
FRENCH ecommandation pour la deuxième lecture ( A5 - 0165 / 2000 ) , au nom de la commission de l ' environnement , de la santé publique et de la politique des consommateurs , relative à la position commune du Conseil en vue de l ' adoption du règlement du Parlement européen et du Conseil permettant la participation volontaire des organisations à un système communautaire de management environnemental et d ' audit ( EMAS ) ( 10677 / 2 / 99 -- C5 - 0098 / 2000 -- 1998 / 0303 ( COD ) ) ( Rapporteur - : Mme - García - Orcoyen Tormo ) 
FRENCH La Commission peut accepter les propositions d ' amendement 1, 2 et 19 troisième partie . 
FRENCH Les propositions d ' amendement 3, 4, 16, 19 quatrième partie , 22, 25, 30 première et troisième partie . 
FRENCH Les propositions d ' amendement 32 et 33, deuxième partie , sont en principe acceptées . 
FRENCH La Commission ne peut accepter les autres propositions d ' amendement . 
FRENCH Après l ' amendement 49 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , afin de rendre la proposition d ' amendement 41 acceptable aux yeux du PPE et des libéraux , je propose la proposition d ' amendement oral suivante - : au lieu de " l ' intégration active des travailleurs et de leurs représentants " , on peut ajouter " l ' intégration active des travailleurs et de leurs représentants au sein de l ' organisation " . 
FRENCH ( Le Président déclare approuvée la position commune ainsi modifiée ) 
FRENCH ecommandation pour la deuxième lecture ( A5 - 0166 / 2000 ) , au nom de la commission de l ' environnement , de la santé publique et de la politique des consommateurs , relative à la position commune du Conseil en vue de l ' adoption de la directive du Parlement européen et du Conseil concernant les valeurs limites du benzène et du monoxyde de carbone dans l ' air ambiant ( 5860 / 1 / 00 -- C5 - 0182 / 2000 -- 1998 / 0333 ( COD ) ) ( Rapporteur - : Mme - Breyer ) 
FRENCH La Commission ne peut pas accepter la proposition d ' amendement 4 . 
FRENCH Elle accepte en principe les propositions d ' amendement 5 et 6 et intégralement les propositions d ' amendement 2 et 3 . 
FRENCH Il n ' y a pas d ' amendements 5 et 6 . 
FRENCH Il n ' y a ici que quatre amendements . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , je vous demande encore une fois d ' excuser l ' erreur de tout à l ' heure . 
FRENCH La Commission ne peut pas accepter les propositions d ' amendement 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 et 10, première partie , 11, 12, 13, 14 et 15, première , troisième et quatrième parties , 16, 17 et 18 . 
FRENCH Deuxièmement , si la proposition est formulée comme une recommandation , la Commission pourrait accepter les amendements 2, 10, deuxième partie , 15, deuxième partie en ce qui concerne le point 9 . 
FRENCH onseil européen des 19 et 20 juin 2000 à Santa Maria da Feira 
FRENCH Proposition de résolution ( B5 - 0583 / 2000 ) 
FRENCH ( Le Parlement rejette la proposition de résolution ) 
FRENCH Proposition de résolution ( B5 - 0585 / 2000 ) 
FRENCH ( Le Parlement rejette la proposition de résolution ) < / P > - Proposition de résolution commune ( ) sur les conclusions du Conseil européen des 19 et 20 juin 2000 à Santa Maria da Feira 
FRENCH ( Le Parlement adopte la résolution ) < / P > roposition de résolution commune ( ) sur la délégation d ' observateurs de l ' Union aux élections au Zimbabwe 
FRENCH ( Le Parlement adopte la résolution ) 
FRENCH < / P > raite des êtres humains 
FRENCH Proposition de résolution B5 - 0595 / 2000 sur l ' immigration illégale et la mort de 58 immigrants illégaux découverts sans vie à Douvres 
FRENCH ( Le Parlement rejette la proposition de résolution ) < / P > - roposition de résolution commune ( ) 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , en tant que représentant du peuple , je tiens à ce que nous nous tenions à ce que nous avons signé . 
FRENCH Il n ' est bien évidemment pas agréable de devoir brutalement retirer un engagement pris dans le cadre du travail parlementaire . 
FRENCH En ce qui concerne l ' immigration clandestine et la question des passeurs , les membres de mon groupe politique n ' ont pas tous la même opinion . 
FRENCH C ' est la raison pour laquelle nous avons retiré notre signature . 
FRENCH Je demande que l ' on en prenne acte . 
FRENCH ( Le Parlement adopte la résolution commune ) 
FRENCH e Président . -- Vu l ' heure , nous interrompons ici l ' heure des votes , qui reprendra à 17h30 . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , je respecte votre décision . 
FRENCH Je pense toutefois que voter une législation le jeudi après - midi de la période de juillet -- et le prochain rapport est un rapport législatif -- est plus que léger . Je m ' y oppose donc énergiquement - ! 
FRENCH Madame Roth - Behrendt , je voudrais vous informer qu ' il n ' y a pas qu ' un rapport à caractère législatif , mais bien quatre - ! 
FRENCH Dès lors , si nous souhaitons les traiter tous de la même façon , nous devrions continuer à voter bien au - delà de 14 heures , ce que nous ne pouvons pas faire . 
FRENCH Ensuite , on vote normalement quand l ' Assemblée est disposée à le faire et non dans une situation d ' indisponibilité . 
FRENCH L ' heure des votes est interrompue . 
FRENCH EXPLICATIONS DE VOTE * * * 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , en vue du vote sur le rapport Papayannakis , je voudrais demander à la Commission de convenir d ' un comité de conciliation pour la semaine prochaine de manière à ce que nous puissions tirer ce problème au clair avant l ' échéance du 1er septembre . 
FRENCH Pourriez - vous transmettre cela au commissaire , car elle n ' écoute pas en ce moment . 
FRENCH Rapport Schierhuber ( A5 - 0124 / 2000 ) 
FRENCH Les pays ayant un vaste secteur agricole et un taux élevé d ' - emploi dans des métiers agricoles , comme la Grèce , disposent des contingents les plus bas , pour le lin comme pour le chanvre . 
FRENCH À cette occasion , nous devons souligner la nécessité de mener une campagne d ' - information dans les pays membres , afin de pallier l ' - ignorance et la démagogie dont le chanvre textile est victime , au point que , dans des cas comme la Grèce , la police a procédé à la fermeture de magasins qui vendaient des tissus de chanvre et que de petites entreprises ont été ruinées . 
FRENCH Rapport Stauner ( A5 - 0182 / 2000 ) 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , les retraités , comme les personnes âgées , sont favorables aux nouveautés , même si d ' aucuns pourraient penser le contraire . C ' est pourquoi , chaque fois que l ' on adopte de nouvelles règles pour les Fonds structurels afin de lancer des actions novatrices , le représentant du Parti des retraités que je suis ne peut que se réjouir . 
FRENCH À cette occasion - - et je le fais volontiers - - j ' espère , après avoir évidemment expliqué mon vote favorable , qu ' à l ' avenir , on introduira également , parmi les projets à financer en tant qu ' actions innovatrices , des projets visant non seulement à l ' amélioration du travail au sens strict , mais aussi tout ce qui concerne les pensionnés qui profitent désormais des contributions qu ' ils ont versées tout au long de leur vie professionnelle . La retraite constitue , dans un sens large , un prolongement de la carrière . 
FRENCH Rapport Virrankoski ( A5 - 0192 / 2000 ) 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , j ' interviens simplement pour dire que les députés radicaux se sont abstenus lors du vote sur le rapport Virrankoski parce que le Conseil a voulu s ' accaparer , a voulu intégrer dans son budget , les dépenses découlant des missions que des experts militaires ou autres pourraient être conduits à effectuer dans le cadre de la PESC . 
FRENCH Puisque notre Parlement a toujours veillé de près à ce que les dépenses relatives à la PESC fassent partie intégrante du budget de l ' Union et figurent donc au budget de la Commission , nous nous inquiétons de la dérive que peut susciter le rapport Virrankoski , c ' est - à - dire de la tendance à inclure de plus en plus dans le budget du Conseil des frais de fonctionnement , des dépenses opérationnelles en ce qui concerne la PESC . 
FRENCH C ' est pour cette raison que nous nous sommes abstenus lors du vote sur le rapport Virrankoski . 
FRENCH Nous avons voté contre l ' octroi d ' une somme d ' argent supplémentaire aux conseillers militaires parce que nous estimons qu ' une politique de paix a besoin d ' experts en matière de paix et d ' une résolution non violente des conflits . 
FRENCH Rapport Stauner ( A5 - 0190 / 2000 ) 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , le Parlement ne peut à mon sens se satisfaire des résultats atteints jusqu ' à présent . 
FRENCH Cette décharge de la Commission nous fait courir le risque de perdre toute crédibilité dans le domaine du contrôle budgétaire et de la lutte contre la fraude . 
FRENCH J ' ignore également si tous les membres de l ' Assemblée ont conscience qu ' en approuvant la décharge , nous devons également assumer la responsabilité des dommages . 
FRENCH Ne nous étonnons dès lors pas si le citoyen perd de plus en plus confiance en l ' Europe - ! 
FRENCH Au nom de mon groupe , je voudrais dès lors signaler que c ' est pour cette raison que nous avons voté contre la décharge de la Commission . 
FRENCH Nous avons pris cette décision , parce que l ' actuelle Commission , qui s ' était engagée à effectuer une vaste réforme de son administration , ne témoigne pas d ' une volonté suffisante pour mener à bien cette réforme . 
FRENCH Les nombreux exemples d ' absence de volonté , d ' atermoiements et de refus de livrer des documents à la commission du contrôle budgétaire ainsi que le fait incroyable que des rapports et des procès - verbaux capitaux disparaissent des archives où ils devraient se trouver témoignent fâcheusement d ' une volonté de poursuivre une administration qui est synonyme de pouvoir absolu . 
FRENCH Il est évident que l ' absence de transparence a pour but de protéger les membres et les fonctionnaires de la Commission contre les sanctions utilisées dans toute administration démocratique nationale et sans lesquelles l ' Union européenne ne fonctionnera jamais . 
FRENCH J ' ai cité , à l ' occasion du débat , des affaires qui n ' ont toujours pas été réglées , mais il ne s ' agit là que des symptômes individuels d ' une maladie . 
FRENCH Un an après son entrée en fonction , la Commission n ' a toujours pas présenté la moindre proposition visant à modifier radicalement les dispositions relatives aux statuts des fonctionnaires - ; les statuts actuels leur offrent une protection légale contre l ' incompétence et la malhonnêteté , ce qui est totalement absurde pour une administration qui se dit démocratique . 
FRENCH L ' examen du présent rapport au sein de la commission du contrôle budgétaire a , en outre , montré que certains députés sont plus enclins à protéger la Commission contre les contribuables européens qu ' à veiller à ce que l ' argent de ces mêmes contribuables soit administrée de façon honnête et efficace . 
FRENCH Des pressions intolérables sont exercées à l ' encontre de plusieurs rapporteurs et les milieux véreux , qui ont intérêt à empêcher que les cas de fraude et d ' escroquerie les plus graves commis dans l ' administration de la Commission ne soient élucidés , n ' hésitent pas à recourir à des menaces physiques . 
FRENCH Une majorité de députés a décidé ce jour d ' octroyer la décharge . 
FRENCH Je ne pense pas que beaucoup d ' entre eux soient satisfaits de l ' administration financière de la Commission , mais nous sommes arrivés à un point où la majorité des députés préfère fermer les yeux plutôt que risquer que leurs citoyens et électeurs ne se rendent compte de l ' ampleur des scandales qui ont lieu année après année . 
FRENCH Je suis convaincu que la majorité des membres regretteront à la longue leur complaisance . 
FRENCH En tant que rapporteur de la commission du contrôle budgétaire , j ' ai recommandé le 6 juin dernier la décharge à la Commission pour l ' année 1998 . 
FRENCH Aujourd ' hui , j ' ai voté contre cette décharge . 
FRENCH Cette firme est soupçonnée de fraude depuis 1992 . 
FRENCH On lui a toutefois fait grâce d ' une caution d ' un montant de 14,6 millions d ' euros . 
FRENCH Cela n ' a pas empêché la Commission de continuer à faire des affaires avec elle sans se poser la moindre question . 
FRENCH À présent , la police financière italienne mène une enquête et on dit que la firme serait mêlée à des transactions illicites et des falsifications de grande ampleur dans le secteur du beurre . 
FRENCH Bien entendu , cela ne peut donner lieu à des jugements prématurés . 
FRENCH La commissaire au budget n ' a cependant pas le droit de refuser de révéler combien de millions la Commission a payé à cette firme au cours des années écoulées . 
FRENCH Elle a constamment utilisé de nouvelles excuses . 
FRENCH Mardi dernier , elle a voulu nous faire croire de manière mensongère que le règlement 2390 / 1999 interdirait la communication des chiffres . 
FRENCH Le budget de la Communauté n ' est pas un secret d ' État . 
FRENCH Si la Commission refuse de nous en rendre compte , nous ne pouvons y répondre que par un refus de décharge . 
FRENCH Mme - Redondo a demandé la parole pour une question de procédure . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , je voudrais vous demander que le vote sur le rapport relatif à la protection des forêts soit reporté à la prochaine séance car aujourd ' - hui , pour des raisons indépendantes de ma volonté , je dois quitter ce Parlement à 17 heures . 
FRENCH Madame Redondo , par manque de temps , nous n ' avons pas pu mettre aux voix certains rapports à caractère législatif . Nous le ferons dès lors cet après - midi , après le débat d ' actualité , comme de coutume . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , en ce qui concerne l ' ordre des votes , je me permets de vous demander de veiller à l ' avenir à ce que les actes législatifs soient votés en premier lieu , car la tâche principale du Parlement consiste à légiférer - ! 
FRENCH Je ne suis pas d ' accord avec le fait que nous nous soyons déjà interrompus après une heure et demie de travaux , mais je dois bien l ' accepter . 
FRENCH Cependant , je ne suis absolument pas d ' accord avec le fait que nous constituions un ordre des votes aux termes duquel les textes législatifs ne sont automatiquement votés que le jeudi soir . 
FRENCH Je demande donc de modifier l ' ordre des votes en conséquence . 
FRENCH Comme vous le savez , certaines décisions sont prises par la Conférence des présidents . 
FRENCH Normalement , quand nous commençons à voter à midi , nous le faisons pendant une heure . 
FRENCH Quoi qu ' il en soit , ce n ' est pas le moment d ' en discuter . 
FRENCH Nous tiendrons compte de votre remarque et la transmettrons à la Conférence des présidents parce que , dans l ' ordre des votes tel que nous l ' avons adopté , tous les examens en deuxième lecture - - un élément qui concerne notre capacité en tant qu ' Assemblée législative - - passent selon l ' ordre des projets relatifs à notre pouvoir de colégislation . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , je comprends tout ce que vous avez dit , mais , cette semaine , pour la première fois , nous n ' avons eu aucun vote le mardi à midi . 
FRENCH C ' est la décision qui a été prise . 
FRENCH Nous y étions opposés . La majorité de l ' Assemblé -- si elle l ' avait su - , les rapporteurs -- Mme Redondo Jiménez ou M. Arvidsson et les autres -- s ' y seraient également opposés . 
FRENCH Mais si nous faisons cela , cette démarche exige également de notre part un certain degré de flexibilité . 
FRENCH Dans cette assemblée plus réduite , je n ' hésite pas à dire que la plupart d ' entre nous sont des parlementaires expérimentés , et nous savons qu ' il y a des séances différentes . 
FRENCH La séance de juillet du jeudi est une séance d ' une sensibilité particulière . 
FRENCH Nous le savons tous , ce n ' est peut - être pas bien , mais c ' est ainsi . 
FRENCH C ' est pourquoi je vous demande de vérifier si les quatre rapports législatifs qui figurent encore à l ' ordre du jour et qui ne nécessitent plus de longues périodes de vote ne peuvent pas être reportés à la prochaine séance . 
FRENCH C ' est ce qu ' a demandé Mme Redondo Jiménez en ce qui concerne son rapport et elle a mon soutien . 
FRENCH M. Arvidsson -- tout cela concerne les domaines que je connais -- sera lui aussi , je l ' espère , d ' accord avec cette requête , et je vous demande dès lors de prendre contact avec les rapporteurs et les groupes politiques . 
FRENCH M. Swoboda l ' a déjà dit et je peux le répéter pour mon groupe politique - : si les quatre rapports législatifs doivent être reportés au mois de septembre ou à une séance à Bruxelles , nous serons d ' accord . 
FRENCH Madame Roth - Behrendt , vous savez que le report se demande soit au début de la séance , le matin , soit au début du vote . 
FRENCH Donc , cet après - midi , quand nous commencerons les votes , un rapporteur ou un collègue demandera le report au mois de septembre . 
FRENCH Je n ' ai aucune objection à formuler sur cette requête . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , vous avez entièrement raison , c ' est en effet la procédure correcte . 
FRENCH Quoi qu ' il en soit , le président de séance sera informé de cette requête et donnera évidemment la parole à un député qui exposera alors cette demande . 
FRENCH Rapport Rühle ( A5 - 0167 / 2000 ) 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , j ' ai voté contre le rapport Rühle . 
FRENCH Je pense tout d ' abord qu ' il y a une erreur dans les chiffres parce qu ' on parle d ' un budget pour 1998 de quelque 10 - 940 - milliards d ' euros - - du moins dans la version italienne - - , ce qui me semble à première vue un peu trop . 
FRENCH Je crois qu ' il y a une erreur d ' au moins trois zéros . 
FRENCH Cette parenthèse étant fermée , je voudrais souligner que parmi les autres points inacceptables - - comme le rapporteur l ' a déjà dit dans son rapport , raison pour laquelle il aurait été logique qu ' il termine par une demande de vote contraire à son document - - il serait bon que l ' on accorde à l ' avenir au moins une partie de ces fonds aux associations de volontaires , dont de nombreux retraités , disposés à parcourir le monde pour aider au développement des pays qui en ont le besoin . 
FRENCH . -- À fort juste titre , lors de sa séance du 13 avril 2000, le Parlement européen décidait de reporter la décision donnant décharge à la Commission européenne sur l ' - exécution du budget de l ' - exercice 1998 . 
FRENCH Notre groupe , déterminé , est pleinement favorable à tout ce qui peut être entrepris afin de lutter avec énergie contre la fraude et les malversations . 
FRENCH En effet , les irrégularités constatées , tant celles abordées dans le rapport de Mme Stauner à propos de la gestion contestable de la Commission , que celles mises en exergue dans le rapport de Mme Rühle , sur les différents fonds européens de développement , ne peuvent laisser indifférent et portent atteinte à l ' - image et à la crédibilité de la Communauté dans son ensemble . 
FRENCH Aussi , mes chers collègues , devons - nous en tirer toutes les conséquences , en termes de sanction des responsables certes , mais aussi de mise en & # x0153 ; uvre de procédures beaucoup plus transparentes . 
FRENCH Tels qu ' - ils ressortent des votes intervenus en commission du contrôle budgétaire , les rapports de Mmes Rühle et Stauner vont , nous semble - t - il , dans ce sens . 
FRENCH Le rapport de Mme Rühle sur les différents FED met désormais clairement la Commission en face de ses responsabilités - ; il exige plus de clarté pour l ' - ensemble des aides à venir , distribuées par la Communauté au profit des pays en voie de développement . 
FRENCH Le souci d ' - une plus grande moralisation de la politique des aides et de l ' - efficacité de leur utilisation est un principe désormais clairement posé et notre groupe s ' - en félicite . 
FRENCH Il ne saurait être question , cependant , d ' - accepter que , sous prétexte d ' - un meilleur contrôle , afin d ' - aboutir à une utilisation plus honnête et plus rationnelle des fonds européens -- et je pense en particulier aux pays d ' - Afrique , des Caraïbes et du Pacifique -- que notre démarche soit prétexte à organiser par ailleurs le procès infondé de certain pays de l ' - Union -- au demeurant l ' - un des principaux contributeurs nets , je veux parler de la France -- par le biais d ' - une chasse aux sorcières , qui viserait , dit - on , certains hauts fonctionnaires d ' - une même nationalité . 
FRENCH Une plus grande transparence , c ' - est aussi notre souci premier en ce qui concerne les finances des groupes politiques au sein de notre Assemblée - ; les citoyens de l ' - Europe ne comprendraient d ' - ailleurs pas que nous tenions un autre discours . 
FRENCH Aussi devons - nous prendre acte des réponses fournies par notre institution , suite aux observations de la Cour des comptes , et encourager sans tarder toute réforme pertinente , conformément au règlement financier et au principe de transparence . 
FRENCH Pour conclure , je dirai -- ceci est clair à nos yeux -- qu ' - il convient de ne pas introduire de confusion entre la procédure de décharge , laquelle représente une appréciation globale sur la gestion de la Commission européenne , telle que prévue par le Traité , et le traitement de plusieurs affaires ponctuelles , qui , d ' - une évidente gravité , présentent aussi un caractère ponctuel et un montant faible , au regard du total du budget . 
FRENCH Il faut savoir raison garder - ! 
FRENCH Tout autant , prendre acte des précisions supplémentaires que nous avions demandées à la Commission au printemps , dans le cadre du rapport Stauner , ne signifie nullement pour notre groupe que notre institution soit ensuite frappée d ' - amnésie , dans la traque de pratiques inacceptables , au détriment des deniers de nos concitoyens . 
FRENCH Notre groupe salue les efforts louables réalisés par les rapporteurs Mmes Stauner et Rühle et M. Kuhne - ; cependant il convient de rester attentif et de pouvoir observer , à l ' - expérience , quelle sera l ' - attitude de la Commission européenne , au vu des engagements qu ' - elle a pris . 
FRENCH Aussi notre groupe estime - t - il nécessaire , pour l ' - heure , de s ' - abstenir . 
FRENCH Rapport Kuhne ( A5 - 0189 / 2000 ) 
FRENCH J ' ai voté contre la décharge du secrétaire général , car en ce qui concerne l ' achat du bâtiment ASP à Bruxelles , il a communiqué aux organes décisionnels des informations erronées . 
FRENCH On a par erreur laissé croire que le Conseil et la Commission auraient approuvé un financement du bâtiment avec l ' aide de l ' ancien promoteur immobilier . 
FRENCH On a en outre laissé croire que le financement du bâtiment avec l ' aide du promoteur immobilier était une forme indirecte de financement . 
FRENCH En 1998, le Parlement s ' est en fait endetté de 472 millions d ' écus et de 7 milliards de francs belges vis - à - vis d ' un consortium bancaire dirigé par la WestLB , sans qu ' il n ' y ait un appel d ' offres préalable au Journal officiel . 
FRENCH D ' après les constatations de la Cour des comptes , les règlements financiers y afférents ont en outre été violés . 
FRENCH Rapport Papayannakis ( A5 - 0193 / 2000 ) 
FRENCH . -- Il aura fallu connaître le scandale de la vache folle pour que l ' on prenne conscience de la nécessité d ' améliorer la traçabilité et l ' étiquetage des produits alimentaires . 
FRENCH L ' Europe a beaucoup tardé à réagir et a pris un retard considérable en matière de viande bovine . 
FRENCH Aujourd ' hui , sur la base d ' un accord unanime au sein du Conseil , nous avons l ' occasion de montrer enfin un peu de détermination . 
FRENCH En effet , la position commune qui nous est soumise reprend un grand nombre des amendements que notre Parlement a adoptés en première lecture . 
FRENCH Certains collègues nous ont expliqué , en toute bonne foi , que cette mention ne participe en rien à l ' amélioration de la traçabilité de la viande bovine . 
FRENCH Ils ont raison . 
FRENCH Mais , après la succession des scandales alimentaires , que notre Parlement a toujours dénoncés avec vigueur , comment pourrions - nous aujourd ' hui ne pas tenir compte du rôle immense que joue le consommateur - ? 
FRENCH La mention expresse de la catégorie répond à une demande . 
FRENCH Elle contribue à restaurer la confiance des consommateurs . 
FRENCH Il faut distinguer deux types d ' information - : 
FRENCH l ' information permettant d ' améliorer la traçabilité , mais qui n ' est pas directement destinée à informer le consommateur final . 
FRENCH Trop spécifique , elle n ' est formellement lisible que par les professionnels . 
FRENCH Elle remplit une fonction sanitaire . 
FRENCH C ' est sur la base de ces mentions que les contrôles pourront être effectués . 
FRENCH Nous parlons alors de la mise en place du système d ' identification et de la traçabilité - ; 
FRENCH le deuxième type d ' information est destiné directement au citoyen , comme vous et moi , qui achète sa viande tous les jours . 
FRENCH Que veut - il savoir - ? 
FRENCH Il veut être certain que le produit qu ' il va consommer est sain - : le système de traçabilité et d ' identification permettra de garantir la sécurité et la qualité de la viande bovine . 
FRENCH Mais le citoyen souhaite également savoir de quel type de viande il s ' agit . 
FRENCH Ce type de mention sur l ' étiquette s ' adresse directement au consommateur final et lui donne une information intelligible . 
FRENCH C ' est une erreur que de dire que cela ne sert à rien . 
FRENCH Au contraire , cet étiquetage est aussi important que la mise en place de garanties sanitaires . 
FRENCH L ' Europe doit redonner confiance à ses consommateurs , qui boudent la viande bovine depuis le scandale de la vache folle . 
FRENCH Les conséquences sont importantes pour l ' ensemble de ce secteur agro - alimentaire qui a été touché de plein fouet par cette crise . 
FRENCH Ces deux types d ' information ne sont pas concurrents , ils sont complémentaires et contribuent , chacun à son niveau , à restaurer la confiance des consommateurs européens . 
FRENCH La confiance de nos consommateurs ne se décrète pas , elle se gagne . 
FRENCH Rapport García - Orcoyen Tormo ( A5 - 0165 / 2000 ) 
FRENCH . -- ( EN ) Le fait pour l ' Union européenne de s ' assurer que les entreprises traitent leurs affaires dans le respect de l ' environnement est un objectif politique juste . 
FRENCH Le système communautaire de management environnemental et d ' audit , connu sous le nom d ' EMAS , a donné aux entreprises de l ' UE l ' occasion d ' obtenir l ' agrément qu ' elles mettent en & # x0153 ; uvre de bonnes pratiques environnementales dans le cadre de leurs activités . 
FRENCH Il est aujourd ' hui question de la révision du règlement original de 1993 qui a instauré le système communautaire de management environnemental et d ' audit . 
FRENCH Les critères d ' admission dans le registre EMAS sont très stricts . 
FRENCH Dans le nouveau règlement dont il est question aujourd ' hui , il sera plus facile pour les petites et moyennes entreprises de demander l ' agrément dans le cadre du système EMAS . 
FRENCH Dans l ' ensemble , seules les compagnies industrielles de grande taille ont cherché jusqu ' à présent la reconnaissance dans le cadre du système communautaire de management environnemental et d ' audit . 
FRENCH La norme ISO est , par essence , l ' équivalent de l ' ISO 9000 pour les compagnies européennes , assortie toutefois de la perspective environnementale appropriée . 
FRENCH La politique correcte de l ' Union européenne est d ' assurer que toutes les entreprises européennes respectent l ' environnement et veillent à mettre en place les pratiques nécessaires pour garantir que leurs activités n ' ont pas un impact négatif sur l ' environnement sous quelque forme que ce soit . 
FRENCH Quelle que soit la sévérité des règlements , il doit y avoir une plus grande flexibilité dans le système afin de garantir que tous les secteurs et toutes les entreprises de l ' Union européenne ait une chance d ' obtenir l ' agrément dans le cadre du système communautaire de management environnemental et d ' audit . 
FRENCH Je soutiens totalement ce programme et recommande ce rapport . 
FRENCH Recommandation pour la deuxième lecture Breyer ( A5 - 0166 / 2000 ) 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , j ' ai voté en faveur de cette recommandation qui établit des valeurs limites pour le benzène et le monoxyde de carbone dans l ' air ambiant . 
FRENCH J ' y suis bien évidemment favorable , parce que les personnes âgées et les retraités figurent parmi les premiers touchés , leurs poumons étant souvent un peu mal en point . 
FRENCH À part cela , je voudrais insister sur ma demande qu ' à l ' avenir , on ne se préoccupe pas seulement de l ' air que respirent nos concitoyens , mais aussi de celui que respirent les travailleurs en contact , par exemple , avec le benzène et le monoxyde de carbone . 
FRENCH Il serait bon que nous faisions en sorte que leurs horaires soient réduits par rapport à ceux des autres travailleurs , de sorte qu ' ils puissent profiter de la vie moyenne des autres citoyens . 
FRENCH Je crois que l ' Union européenne devrait se pencher en particulier sur les conditions de travail des citoyens qui respirent les substances nocives que nous tentons justement d ' épargner aux piétons . 
FRENCH La protection des travailleurs doit être meilleure encore . 
FRENCH Recommandation pour la deuxième lecture Jackson ( A5 - 0164 / 2000 ) 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , j ' ai voté favorablement et félicite le rapporteur , Mme - Jackson , qui a tant insisté pour que l ' on transforme en directive cette recommandation sur l ' organisation concrète d ' inspections environnementales . 
FRENCH Il est vain que ce Parlement adopte des centaines et des milliers de directives et de règlements importants et utiles si l ' on ne mène pas les contrôles effectifs , concrets et suffisants pour que ces réglementations soient réellement appliquées et que les citoyens européens en tirent un bénéfice réel , notamment - - comme je viens de le dire - - quand il est question de santé environnementale comme dans ce cas et quand le non - respect des règles porte préjudice surtout aux personnes âgées et aux retraités . 
FRENCH Ce projet de recommandation fixe les critères minimaux à appliquer à l ' organisation , l ' exécution , le suivi et la publication des résultats des inspections environnementales . 
FRENCH Il prévoit des inspections environnementales de toutes les entreprises industrielles et autres dont les émissions et les décharges dans l ' environnement sont soumises à des autorisations spéciales ou à l ' obtention de licences . 
FRENCH C ' est sans aucun doute le cas de toutes les compagnies qui reçoivent des licences en matière de contrôle de la pollution sous les auspices des agences pour la protection de l ' environnement . 
FRENCH Si l ' on en croit le texte de cette recommandation , les inspections environnementales incluront - : visites de sites , vérification des opérations de contrôle interne réalisées par les exploitants des installations contrôlées , contrôle des infrastructures , de l ' équipement et de la gestion adéquate de l ' environnement sur le terrain , ainsi que des documents conservés par les exploitants . 
FRENCH Deux types d ' inspections sont envisagées - : les inspections régulières qui constituent une partie d ' un programme d ' inspection planifié et inspections ponctuelles afin d ' assurer le suivi des plaintes liées à l ' octroi et au renouvellement ou à la modification de différentes licences . 
FRENCH Les États membres devront préalablement élaborer des plans pour les activités d ' inspection environnementale couvrant l ' ensemble de leur territoire respectif et les installations situées sur celui - ci . 
FRENCH Ces plans seront mis à la disposition du public au travers des campagnes d ' informations plus vastes et plus générales qui sont envisagées dans cette proposition . 
FRENCH D ' après ce projet de recommandation , chaque plan doit définir la région géographique qu ' il couvre , couvrir une période de temps définie , inclure des dispositions spécifiques à sa révision , identifier les sites ou types d ' installations spécifiques concernés , établir les programmes des inspections environnementales régulières , prévoir et exposer dans les grandes lignes les procédures liées aux inspections environnementales ponctuelles et prévoir la coordination entre les différentes autorités d ' inspection . 
FRENCH Le rapporteur pense que seule une directive peut obliger les États membres à introduire ces systèmes d ' inspection . 
FRENCH En tant que membre de la commission de l ' environnement , de la santé publique et de la politique des consommateurs du Parlement européen , je soutiens le besoin des États membres d ' établir des inspections environnementales harmonisées . 
FRENCH Le Conseil européen doit suivre l ' avis du Parlement européen en la matière . 
FRENCH Nous ne devons pas oublier que , dans les questions environnementales , le Parlement européen dispose du pouvoir de codécision qui découle de l ' application des dispositions du traité d ' Amsterdam . 
FRENCH L ' Union européenne a également une compétence dans les questions environnementales conformément à l ' article 130 du traité de Maastricht . 
FRENCH Conseil européen des 19 et 20 juin 2000 à Santa Maria da Feira 
FRENCH . -- ( EL ) Il y a quatre observations importantes à formuler sur la présidence portugaise et le Sommet de Santa Maria da Feira , qui la clôture . 
FRENCH Premièrement - : l ' - Union européenne a fait un nouveau pas dangereux vers la militarisation , en encourageant l ' - organisation d ' - une force militaire et policière de l ' - Union européenne et le développement d ' un cadre atlantique dans lequel elle se meut . 
FRENCH Pourtant , il y a eu au contraire une carence en actions positives en faveur de la paix , comme en témoigne la poursuite de l ' - enlisement en Yougoslavie . 
FRENCH Deuxièmement - : la CIG a encouragé des développements plus orientés vers l ' - " Europe à deux vitesses " que vers la démocratisation , comme en témoignent la constante référence à la " - coopération renforcée - " et les diverses propositions de réduction du poids des petits pays , tant au Conseil qu ' - à la Commission . 
FRENCH Troisièmement - : l ' - Union européenne , notamment sous la pression du Royaume - Uni , n ' - a abouti ni à un accord précis ni à un calendrier contraignant , relativement à l ' - information fiscale , laissant ainsi libres les paradis fiscaux " au sein de l ' - Union " . 
FRENCH Quatrièmement - : le Sommet de Lisbonne , à mi - chemin du mandat de la Présidence portugaise , a donné un nouveau signe de l ' - abandon du modèle européen relatif à l ' État providence et de l ' - alignement sur le modèle américain . 
FRENCH Nous avons pris cette décision , parce que nous tenons à remercier la présidence d ' avoir mis en & # x0153 ; uvre , comme le reflète également le chapitre de la résolution relatif au suivi du Sommet de Lisbonne , un programme valable et progressiste pour l ' Europe . 
FRENCH Notre vote global ne peut toutefois être perçu comme un soutien au souhait d ' élargir le programme de la conférence intergouvernementale et d ' inclure dans le traité la Charte des droits fondamentaux avec effet légal - ; nous vous renvoyons , à ce propos , aux explications de vote que nous avons rendues à l ' occasion du Sommet de Helsinki , de la convocation de la conférence intergouvernementale , de la position du Parlement européen par rapport à la conférence intergouvernementale et de la préparation du Sommet de Feira . 
FRENCH Ce Parlement aurait mieux fait de constater , avec satisfaction bien sûr , la détermination des chefs d ' État et de gouvernement d ' arriver à un accord intégral sur l ' ensemble du paquet fiscal ( imposition des revenus de l ' épargne , fiscalité des entreprises , intérêts et redevances ) au plus tard à la fin de 2002 . 
FRENCH On aurait dû confirmer la nécessité de préserver la compétitivité des marchés financiers européens par l ' adoption simultanée de mesures équivalentes dans les principaux pays tiers et de mesures identiques dans les territoires dépendants ou associés . 
FRENCH On aurait dû aussi demander à être saisi des rapports que la Commission devra présenter , à intervalles réguliers , sur l ' application des systèmes d ' échange d ' informations et de retenue à la source en matière de fiscalité de l ' épargne , ainsi que du rapport sur la base duquel l ' adoption et la mise en & # x0153 ; uvre de la directive seront décidées . 
FRENCH Je rappelle que tel n ' a pas été le cas . 
FRENCH Je sais que les avis sur le compromis fiscal négocié à l ' arraché à Feira sont très partagés . 
FRENCH Ils se reflètent dans toute la presse européenne . 
FRENCH Je ne peux m ' empêcher de citer quelques titres - : " Compromis dilatoire sur la fiscalité de l ' épargne " , " Doutes sur le compromis fiscal de Feira " , " Accord de façade et divergences persistantes " , " Accord boiteux " , " Retenue à la source , coexistence , rien du tout - " ? 
FRENCH ou en allemand " Schotte Brown stärkt Finansplatz London . 
FRENCH London setzt sich im EU - Steuerstreit durch " , " Schweizer Banken sehen keinen Handlungsbedarf " , " Bevor das Bankgeheimnis fällt , müssen alle Finanzplätze mitmachen " . 
FRENCH Dans ce contexte , le titre de l ' Écho du 24 juin , qui constate avec raison que " sans garanties suffisantes , Luxembourg bloquera la directive sur la fiscalité " et que " l ' échange d ' informations devra aussi être appliqué par les places concurrentes " , reflète ce qui a vraiment été décidé à Feira . 
FRENCH Le fait que notre résolution se plaint du calendrier de Feira illustre l ' ignorance ou l ' illusion des rédacteurs de ce passage , à qui je voudrais rappeler ce que le Premier ministre luxembourgeois a tenu à préciser à ce sujet à Feira , à savoir qu ' en matière de fiscalité de l ' épargne " il y a encore une cinquantaine de questions techniques dont le Conseil n ' a jamais discuté " . 
FRENCH Reprocher dans ce contexte au calendrier de ne pas refléter l ' urgence du problème est d ' un irréalisme irresponsable . 
FRENCH . -- Une expression surprenante est venue sur les lèvres du dernier Président du Conseil , lorsqu ' - il nous a présenté lundi soir le bilan de la présidence portugaise . 
FRENCH " Il ne faut pas , a déclaré le Premier ministre , Antonio Guterres , laisser s ' - installer une dérive intergouvernementale . 
FRENCH Il faut que le débat sur l ' - Europe fédérale , qui vient d ' - être relancé , soit mené dans sa globalité " . 
FRENCH N ' - est - il pas paradoxal de voir le représentant des gouvernements des États membres dénoncer le risque de " dérive intergouvernementale " de l ' - Union européenne - ? 
FRENCH Le paradoxe est d ' - autant plus fort que ce qui éclate aujourd ' - hui aux yeux de tous , ou presque , c ' - est au contraire l ' - impasse à laquelle conduisent immanquablement les formules fédérales , et notamment la dernière en date , celle des coopérations renforcées . Pour tenter de résoudre l ' - insurmontable contradiction entre fédéralisme et élargissement , la formule miracle des coopérations renforcées a été particulièrement mise en avant tout au long de la présidence portugaise . 
FRENCH Elle a été présentée ici même , mardi , par le Président Chirac , comme une sorte de solution universelle , avec une " avant - garde " de " pays pionniers " traçant le chemin de tous . 
FRENCH Notons au passage , à propos d ' - avant - garde , la réapparition dans le cadre du fédéralisme européen , d ' - expressions qui ont connu jadis une grande fortune dans d ' - autres contextes idéologiques . 
FRENCH La mise en avant , sur le mode lyrico - idéologique , d ' - une telle formule dissimule les dangers réels que contient la généralisation du principe de la majorité qualifiée et donc l ' - élimination de la règle de l ' - unanimité . 
FRENCH Non seulement les coopérations renforcées sont - elles vigoureusement dénoncées , et à juste titre , par les États membres , petits et moyens , comme attentatoires à leur dignité , alors que la souveraineté est un principe garantissant l ' - égalité et le respect de chacun . 
FRENCH Mais à l ' - intérieur même des coopérations renforcées , on voit bien que l ' - application du principe de la majorité , au lieu de l ' - unanimité , risque de créer des tensions insoutenables , en conférant un monopole de fait des décisions à un seul pays dominant . 
FRENCH De telle sorte qu ' - il apparaît bien que le principe de la majorité qualifiée , s ' - il est inapplicable à 35, l ' - est tout autant à 2 ou à 3 . 
FRENCH C ' - est pourquoi , en lieu et place des coopérations renforcées , qui seraient nécessairement un facteur de tensions dangereuses , nous proposons des coopérations différenciées , conclues entre États souverains , libres de décider de conclure les accords qu ' - ils veulent dans les domaines qu ' - ils souhaitent , pourvu que ceux - ci ne lèsent pas les intérêts fondamentaux de leurs partenaires . 
FRENCH Traite des êtres humains 
FRENCH . -- Les députées de Lutte ouvrière partagent l ' indignation exprimée par la proposition de la GUE , que nous avons votée , devant la mort des 58 immigrés de Douvres , et de tant d ' autres , qui ont tenté de franchir les frontières extérieures ou intérieures de l ' Union européenne . 
FRENCH Pour mettre fin à une situation où la misère chasse des milliers d ' êtres humains vers des contrées où ils espèrent vivre un peu mieux , il faudrait mettre fin à un système social qui , pour polariser des richesses inouïes entre quelques mains , impose la pauvreté à la majorité de la planète . 
FRENCH Ce n ' est évidemment pas un vote du Parlement qui aboutira à ce bouleversement , nécessité pourtant vitale pour l ' humanité . 
FRENCH Il est révoltant que , même dans les domaines où les institutions actuelles , nationales et européennes , pourraient faire quelque chose , elles ne le font pas . 
FRENCH Le drame de Douvres s ' est produit entre deux pays de l ' Europe . 
FRENCH Les barbelés qu ' on est en train d ' installer autour de l ' Union européenne subsistent même à l ' intérieur pour les ressortissants des pays tiers . Et ces barrières peuvent tuer . 
FRENCH Il ne suffit pas de dénoncer les crapules qui s ' enrichissent en se livrant au trafic des êtres humains . 
FRENCH Il faut assurer aux immigrés des droits qui devraient être ceux de tout être humain . 
FRENCH Il faut assurer la libre circulation des personnes . 
FRENCH Il faut mettre fin aux politiques d ' immigration qui transforment les immigrés en sous - hommes privés de droits , si ce n ' est en clandestins , gibier de la police . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , je ferai mon explication de vote par écrit . 
FRENCH Néanmoins , puis - je faire une motion de procédure - ? 
FRENCH Dans le temps , lorsqu ' on était présent lors du vote et qu ' on faisait une explication de vote par écrit , on pouvait s ' en aller parce que le président communiquait avoir , sur tel rapport , telle et telle explication de vote écrite . 
FRENCH Maintenant , on doit attendre . 
FRENCH Hier , j ' ai attendu 40 minutes pour dire que je faisais mon explication de vote par écrit - ! 
FRENCH C ' est du temps perdu . 
FRENCH Ce que nous faisons est pourtant déjà un peu inhumain - : nous votons de 12 heures à 13 - h - 30 et , après , nous restons ici jusqu ' à 4 heures pour dire qu ' on fait une explication de vote par écrit - ! 
FRENCH Les services m ' ont dit qu ' il fallait être ici . 
FRENCH Peut - être l ' auriez - vous accepté... néanmoins , ne pourrait - on pas clarifier les choses - ? 
FRENCH Je veux bien que ceux qui ne participent pas au vote sur un rapport ou une résolution ne puissent pas faire d ' - explication écrite , mais ceux qui ont participé au vote , qui donnent leur explication écrite , pourquoi doivent - ils rester encore une demi - heure ici - ? 
FRENCH Madame Lulling , à qui en voulez - vous - ? 
FRENCH Aux collègues qui donnent une explication de vote - ! 
FRENCH Si tous ceux qui sont ici le faisaient par écrit , vous auriez pu le faire avant . 
FRENCH Vos collègues ont de toute façon le droit d ' expliquer leur vote sur tous les rapports que nous mettons aux voix . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , je voudrais commenter les points 2 et 3, qui avancent que la conférence intergouvernementale est l ' élément important de l ' élargissement . 
FRENCH Ce n ' est pas le cas . 
FRENCH L ' élément important est avant tout la manière dont les négociations avec les pays candidats se déroulent et le résultat obtenu . 
FRENCH À l ' heure actuelle , aucune date de fin n ' a été fixée et les pays candidats trouvent que l ' UE est très imprécise quant à sa position . 
FRENCH Je voudrais également commenter le point 10, dont le contenu implique , à mon sens , une évolution malheureuse vers une militarisation de l ' Union européenne . 
FRENCH Je le dis également en tant que représentant d ' un pays neutre . 
FRENCH Je voudrais finalement commenter le point 11, lequel parle d ' un " pas en avant positif vers une coordination fiscale en Europe " . 
FRENCH Qu ' est - ce pour une déclaration - ? 
FRENCH Je voudrais citer à ce propos la constitution suédoise et ses propres termes " le droit très ancien du peuple suédois à se taxer " . 
FRENCH ( La séance , suspendue à 13h50, est reprise à 15 heures ) 
FRENCH DÉBAT D ' ACTUALITÉ 
FRENCH L ' ordre du jour appelle le débat sur des problèmes d ' actualité , urgents et d ' importance majeure . 
FRENCH La parole est à M. Maaten pour un rappel au règlement . 
FRENCH Madame la Présidente , je prends volontiers la parole lors de l ' - ouverture du débat d ' - actualité parce que je pense , à consulter l ' article 46 du règlement , que le moment est opportun . 
FRENCH L ' ordre du jour mentionne en effet une résolution sur l ' Euro 2000 et les hooligans et , bien que nous désirions discuter de cette affaire , certains éléments font actuellement toujours l ' objet d ' une enquête menée par les autorités judiciaires des Pays - Bas . 
FRENCH Nous pensons donc qu ' il est prématuré d ' émettre un jugement à ce sujet alors que l ' enquête n ' est pas terminée . 
FRENCH C ' est pourquoi je voudrais proposer , sur la base de l ' article 146, de reporter à notre période de session de septembre la discussion relative à cette résolution . 
FRENCH Ledit article précise également que pareille requête doit immédiatement faire l ' objet d ' un vote . 
FRENCH Cher collègue , premièrement , l ' article dont vous parlez ne fait référence qu ' à un groupe ou à 32 députés . 
FRENCH Deuxièmement , il ne concerne pas directement la question des urgences , puisque le principe même de nos urgences est de délibérer en début de période de session pour fixer le cadre de celles - ci . 
FRENCH Ce n ' est pas comme un renvoi en commission . 
FRENCH Madame la Présidente , je vous demanderai de transmettre à Mme Fontaine , pour qu ' - elle fasse le nécessaire auprès des institutions pertinentes , la grande préoccupation qui règne dans la baie d ' Algeciras à cause de la présence , depuis plus de deux mois , d ' - un sous - marin nucléaire du Royaume - Uni , le HM Tireless , en panne , semblerait - il , à cause d ' - un très grave problème dans le système de réfrigération . 
FRENCH Il semblerait , d ' - après les dernières nouvelles , que l ' - on voudrait le réparer à cet endroit même . 
FRENCH Les habitants de la zone ont exprimé leur opposition totale , via une résolution conjointe de tous les groupes politiques approuvée aujourd ' - hui même , à ce que cette réparation se fasse là - bas . 
FRENCH Au sein de cette Assemblée , nous invitons instamment le gouvernement britannique à remorquer immédiatement ce machin hors de la baie et à le réparer en Angleterre , où les installations appropriés à cette réparation sont , nous supposons , disponibles . 
FRENCH Cher collègue , votre intervention sera transmise à Mme Fontaine qui , j ' en suis sûre , y sera attentive . 
FRENCH Madame la Présidente , plusieurs groupes soutiennent la requête de M. Maaten. Il a parlé au nom du groupe ELDR et je me rallie à sa requête au nom du groupe EDD . 
FRENCH Je vous demande donc de procéder au vote , conformément au règlement . 
FRENCH Non , Monsieur Blokland , le règlement ne prévoit pas qu ' on puisse mettre aux voix le report d ' une urgence . 
FRENCH Le cas des urgences est très particulier . 
FRENCH À partir du moment où c ' est une urgence , elle ne peut être reportée . 
FRENCH Bien évidemment , l ' ensemble des arguments que vous et M. Maaten avez développés pourront être considérés pendant le débat , mais je ne mets pas aux voix la remise à plus tard de ce débat . 
FRENCH En fait , chaque sujet placé lundi à l ' - ordre du jour par l ' - Assemblée peut être reporté par celle - ci dans le courant de la semaine , à la lumière de nouveaux arguments . 
FRENCH Or , il y a de nouveaux arguments dans le cas présent . 
FRENCH Nous avons appris entre - temps que la justice néerlandaise a ouvert une enquête . 
FRENCH Nous disposons à présent de nouvelles données dont nous devons tenir compte . 
FRENCH Je pense dès lors que votre explication du règlement ne correspond pas à la lettre du règlement . 
FRENCH Je crois , Monsieur Blokland , que mon interprétation correspond à la lettre et à l ' esprit de notre règlement . 
FRENCH Il est clairement dit que l ' ordre du jour -- puisqu ' il s ' agit de l ' établissement de l ' ordre du jour -- est établi par notre Assemblée en début de période de session , ce qui a été fait . 
FRENCH Indépendamment de cela , si des éléments nouveaux sont apportés , vous pourrez les transmettre au cours du débat et cela éclairera le vote de nos collègues . 
FRENCH Mais je maintiens cette interprétation , qui est à la fois liée au principe de l ' ordre du jour et au principe des urgences . 
FRENCH Madame la Présidente , j ' - interviens seulement pour m ' associer aux propos de mon collègue du parti andalou , d ' - Andalousie , et suggérer , comme lieu de réparation du sous - marin atomique britannique , les jardins du palais de Buckingham où ils peuvent ramener " l ' animal " . 
FRENCH Je maintiens ma position et je vous propose maintenant de passer directement au débat , car nos collègues l ' attendent , concernant les îles Fidji et Salomon . 
FRENCH Îles Fidji et Salomon 
FRENCH L ' ordre du jour appelle en discussion commune les propositions de résolution suivantes - : 
FRENCH B5 - 0616 / 2000 de Mme Ludford , au nom du groupe du parti européen des libéraux , démocrates et réformateurs , sur la situation aux Fidji et dans les îles Salomon - ; 
FRENCH B5 - 0620 / 2000 de MM . Corrie et Johan Van Hecke , au nom du groupe du parti populaire européen ( démocrates - chrétiens ) et des démocrates européens , sur la situation aux Fidji et dans les îles Salomon - ; 
FRENCH B5 - 0629 / 2000 de M. Marset Campos , au nom du groupe confédéral de la gauche unitaire européenne / gauche verte nordique , sur la situation aux Fidji et dans les îles Salomon - ; 
FRENCH B5 - 0640 / 2000 de M. Lucas , au nom du groupe des Verts / alliance libre européenne , sur la situation dans les îles Salomon - ; 
FRENCH B5 - 0644 / 2000 de MM. van den Berg et Kinnock , au nom du groupe du parti des socialistes européens , sur les îles Fidji et Salomon . 
FRENCH Madame la Présidente , ce qui se passe actuellement aux îles Fidji prouve une fois de plus que les illusions pathétiques de ceux qui croient en la société multiethnique et multiraciale ne trouvent pas de réponse dans les faits . 
FRENCH Nous voyons en effet que le conflit dans ces îles entre l ' ethnie autochtone et l ' ethnie immigrée a explosé de manière peu sanglante , certes , mais néanmoins impressionnante . 
FRENCH Il se produit la même chose aux îles Salomon voisines , ou dans d ' autres régions du monde . 
FRENCH Il suffit de penser à la région des Grands lacs africains , à l ' île de Timor ou aux Moluques , où les faits nous montrent que la cohabitation entre des communautés aux traditions , cultures et histoires tout à fait différentes ne se reflète pas dans la réalité , au - delà des bonnes intentions de ceux qui souhaitent la mondialisation totale , même dans ce domaine . 
FRENCH Il faut donc selon moi insister sur la protection des ethnies indigènes pour éviter que les Fidjiens d ' origine subissent le même sort que les Indiens d ' Amérique du Sud , centrale ou du Nord , et veiller à ce que leur culture soit préservée à travers un contrôle de l ' immigration sauvage pour que ce qui se passe là - bas ne se produise pas , comme cela a malheureusement déjà été le cas dans les Balkans , sur notre continent . 
FRENCH Madame la Présidente , c ' est à juste titre que nous sommes , au sein du Parlement , particulièrement attentifs aux régions dans lesquelles les tensions ethniques conduisent à des conflits et à des tentatives de renversement de la démocratie et de l ' État de droit . 
FRENCH Que ce soit dans les îles Fidji ou Salomon , le gouvernement démocratique et l ' ordre public ont été ébranlés . 
FRENCH L ' objectif , dans les îles Fidji , doit être de restaurer le gouvernement légitime élu sur la base de la constitution multiraciale de 1997, qui a été approuvée par les deux groupes ethniques - - les Indo - Fidjiens et les Fidjiens indigènes . 
FRENCH Il faut mettre un terme à la violence à l ' encontre des biens et des personnes et obtenir la libération des otages . 
FRENCH L ' administration civile transitoire mise en place dans les îles Fidji ne répond pas aux tests constitutionnels et démocratiques . 
FRENCH Nous demandons dès lors à la Commission qu ' elle mette en & # x0153 ; uvre avec détermination des procédures visant à suspendre la coopération au développement avec les îles Fidji . 
FRENCH Les habitants accablés des îles Fidji attendent que l ' Union européenne , qu ' ils considèrent comme le flambeau de la démocratie et de l ' égalité raciale , vienne à leur secours . 
FRENCH Madame la Présidente , je voudrais concentrer mon attention sur le cas des îles Salomon , mais d ' abord dire un mot à propos des îles Fidji . 
FRENCH Le vice - président ACP - UE fait partie des personnes actuellement détenues en otage et je voudrais vous demander d ' adresser une lettre de soutien à sa famille . 
FRENCH La délégation ACP - UE s ' est rendue dans les îles Salomon pour étudier la tension ethnique . 
FRENCH Il était relativement évident après les discussions qu ' un coup d ' État était imminent . 
FRENCH Pourquoi est - ce arrivé - ? 
FRENCH Lorsque nous sommes arrivés , nous avons été confrontés à un vide total . 
FRENCH Il n ' y avait aucun dialogue entre les parties en conflit . 
FRENCH Le Parlement ne fonctionnait pas . 
FRENCH Il n ' y avait pas d ' ordre public , car ceux qui appartenaient à la police le jour se transformaient en militants malaitans la nuit et ont ouverts leurs dépôts d ' armes aux Malaitans le jour du coup d ' État . 
FRENCH Le groupe IMF détient 99,9 - % de Guadalcanal et seule Honiara City est aux mains des Malaitans . 
FRENCH Cette situation est intenable . 
FRENCH Le conflit ethnique est entièrement dû à l ' expulsion de Guadalcanal de 40 - 000 Malaitans vers leur île d ' origine , vers une terrible pauvreté , sans aucune compensation . 
FRENCH Comme ils ont fait tout le travail , Guadalcanal est maintenant paralysée tant dans les régions rurales qu ' urbaines . 
FRENCH La présence de Mme Kinnock et moi - même a eu une influence favorable sur la situation . 
FRENCH Nous avons établi un dialogue . 
FRENCH Nous avons obtenu le retrait de la demande de démission après 48 heures du Premier ministre . 
FRENCH Nous leur avons conseillé de convoquer le Parlement et d ' avoir un débat sur la situation et celui - ci a maintenant eu lieu . 
FRENCH Tout cela est arrivé parce que nous avons signalé que l ' Union européenne pourrait suspendre son aide si le coup d ' État se faisait sous la menace des armes . 
FRENCH Cette aide représente 25 - % de leur PIB . 
FRENCH Mais le pays est ruiné et le nouveau Premier ministre sera confronté aux mêmes problèmes que son prédécesseur . 
FRENCH Il doit rendre la structure parlementaire plus active , travailler en vue d ' un cessez - le - feu et engager ensuite des discussions sur l ' octroi d ' une compensation avec l ' aide extérieure . 
FRENCH Je voudrais terminer en remerciant les membres de la délégation là - bas qui nous ont été d ' un très grand secours . 
FRENCH Madame la Présidente , chers collègues , le Pacifique , il est vrai , évoque toujours des images paradisiaques - : plages , cocotiers , soleil . 
FRENCH L ' incroyable dans cette affaire est , outre la passivité de nos institutions , que l ' on prend toujours le prétexte de tensions interethniques pour expliquer ces conflits . 
FRENCH Or , on se rend bien compte que les véritables causes ne sont pas que là . 
FRENCH Aux Salomon , la très grande majorité de la population est mélanésienne et chrétienne . 
FRENCH À Fidji , près de la moitié de la population est d ' origine indienne , mais cette origine remonte au siècle passé . 
FRENCH Et malgré ces différences , chacun est chez lui à Fidji . 
FRENCH On nie par exemple le rôle joué par ceux qui tirent profit de ces conflits - : multinationales et hommes politiques locaux . 
FRENCH Pour les premières , les périodes d ' instabilité signifient moins d ' obligations en matière sociale , de fiscalité , d ' environnement parce que l ' État est alors très faible et les conflits favorisent l ' industrie de l ' armement parce qu ' il faudra bien armer les groupes politiques . 
FRENCH Pour les hommes politiques , la pratique qui consiste à monter les uns contre les autres , comme le fait , par exemple , l ' extrême - droite chez nous , permet de se créer un espace politique ou de maintenir en place le pouvoir . 
FRENCH Cette pratique n ' est possible que parce que la population est pauvre et qu ' elle souffre d ' un manque de connaissance de l ' autre . 
FRENCH Dans le cas présent , les deux conflits auraient dû permettre à certains de se remettre en selle ou de prendre un pouvoir qu ' ils n ' arrivaient pas à avoir par les urnes . 
FRENCH À Fidji , le coup d ' État a été fomenté par un homme d ' affaires en faillite qui a joué sur ses lointaines origines fidjiennes pour légitimer son action . 
FRENCH Quant au nouveau Premier ministre , il est également issu du milieu des affaires . 
FRENCH Aux Salomon , un simulacre de vote du Parlement a porté au pouvoir un nouveau Premier ministre , élu grâce aux fusils . 
FRENCH Ces deux exemples étayent bien notre vision du conflit . 
FRENCH La résolution commune se veut cependant trop moralisatrice et demande de fait de revenir à la situation antérieure . 
FRENCH Comme c ' est trop souvent le cas , elle ne revient pas sur les véritables sources de ces conflits - : la pauvreté et le rôle sous - jacent et intéressé d ' acteurs économiques et politiques . 
FRENCH Il y a quelques jours , quelques Indo - fidjiens ethniques représentant cette communauté et la diaspora indienne qui sont affectés par ces conflits sont venus au Parlement . 
FRENCH Ils ont exprimé leur plus profonde inquiétude quant à la situation dans les îles Fidji , son symbolisme et la manière dont elle pourrait affecter les communautés indiennes dans d ' autres régions du monde . 
FRENCH Leur inquiétude ne concernait pas précisément la communauté indienne ethnique , mais plutôt les îles Fidji . 
FRENCH Celles - ci se sont octroyé une constitution multiraciale en 1997 . 
FRENCH C ' était un modèle de constitution pour une société multiraciale et une île prospère . 
FRENCH Dans les pays auxquels nous accordons une aide , le Parlement doit veiller à ce que nous surveillions la dégradation de l ' ordre public et veillions aux intérêts des minorités ethniques qui sont en danger . 
FRENCH Les inquiétudes exprimées sont plus que réelles . 
FRENCH Nous avons toujours la possibilité de suspendre l ' aide si nous croyons que quelque chose ne tourne pas rond aux îles Fidji . 
FRENCH Glenys Kinnock et moi - même , ainsi que d ' autres collègues , qui avons rencontré la communauté ethnique indienne voulons les aider à trouver une solution à ce conflit . 
FRENCH Madame la Présidente , Mesdames et Messieurs , la Commission observe avec une inquiétude croissante les événements qui se déroulent depuis le 18 mai dans les îles Fidji . 
FRENCH Il est vraiment décourageant de constater à quel point les acquis d ' une décennie entière sont aujourd ' hui menacés . 
FRENCH Il y avait une constitution qui ne reposait pas sur le racisme . 
FRENCH Elle est abrogée . 
FRENCH Les îles Fidji avaient un gouvernement démocratiquement élu . 
FRENCH Il a été renversé et remplacé par un gouvernement civil de transition nommé par l ' armée . 
FRENCH Les îles Fidji commencent déjà à subir d ' énormes dommages économiques . 
FRENCH Elles risquent une perte de confiance des investisseurs . 
FRENCH Sur le plan politique , les îles Fidji , qui , en toute fierté , voulaient donner leur nom au nouvel accord de partenariat négocié pour 20 ans entre les pays ACP et l ' UE , risquent de dégrader considérablement leurs relations avec la communauté internationale . 
FRENCH Elles risquent même d ' être exclues du Commonwealth . 
FRENCH La Commission prépare en ce moment une proposition au Conseil sur le recours à l ' article 366a de la Convention de Lomé , car elle est d ' avis que les principes fondamentaux de la Convention -- démocratie , État de droit , respect des droits de l ' homme -- ne sont plus garantis dans les îles Fidji . 
FRENCH Je voudrais rappeler que cette disposition prévoit tout d ' abord la consultation entre les parties . 
FRENCH Des mesures supplémentaires et des sanctions ne seront débattues dans un second temps qu ' en fonction des résultats des consultations et de leur mise en & # x0153 ; uvre . 
FRENCH C ' est la raison pour laquelle il est pour l ' instant trop tôt pour évaluer d ' autres mesures et les sanctions à prendre . 
FRENCH Nous devrions éviter les effets qu ' a eu une interdiction de commerce exigée par les syndicats en Australie et en Nouvelle - Zélande , à savoir le licenciement de 4000 travailleurs du secteur de l ' habillement et du tourisme . 
FRENCH J ' en viens à présent aux îles Salomon . Ici aussi , la Commission observe avec inquiétude la dégradation des conditions de sécurité . 
FRENCH La Commission soutient tous les efforts entrepris par les médiateurs pour faire en sorte que les questions ouvertes et les divergences de vue des parties concernées puissent être débattues ouvertement et sans menace de recours à la violence . 
FRENCH La Commission tient à disposition ses instruments permettant de soutenir le processus de paix , dès que la situation politique et les conditions de sécurité le permettront . 
FRENCH La discussion commune est close . 
FRENCH Le vote aura lieu à 17h30 . 
FRENCH Tibet 
FRENCH B5 - 0610 / 2000, de Mme Sanders - Ten - Holte , au nom du groupe du parti européen des libéraux , démocrates et réformateurs , sur l ' urgente nécessité de négociations sino - tibétaines en vue de l ' adoption d ' un nouveau statut pour le Tibet - ; 
FRENCH B5 - 0617 / 2000, de Mme Muscardini et M. - Collins , au nom du groupe Union pour l ' Europe des nations , sur le Tibet - ; 
FRENCH B5 - 0621 / 2000, de MM . Thomas Mann et Bowis , au nom du groupe du parti populaire européen ( démocrates - chrétiens ) et démocrates européens , sur le projet de réduction de la pauvreté en Chine occidentale et l ' avenir du Tibet - ; 
FRENCH B5 - 0641 / 2000, de M. Messner et Mme Frassoni , au nom du groupe des Verts / alliance libre européenne , sur l ' urgente nécessité de négociations sino - tibétaines en vue de l ' adoption d ' un nouveau statut pour le Tibet - ; 
FRENCH B5 - 0645 / 2000, de MM Sakellariou et Veltroni , au nom du groupe du parti des socialistes européens , sur le Tibet . 
FRENCH Madame la Présidente , Monsieur le Commissaire , chers collègues , je pense que nous nous apprêtons à voter un texte important sur le Tibet , et que nous avons la possibilité aujourd ' hui de faire un saut qualitatif dans cette bataille fondamentale . 
FRENCH C ' est une bataille de droit , et de droit international . 
FRENCH Le Tibet est occupé , le Tibet a été envahi par les troupes chinoises en 1949 et , depuis lors , il est occupé et colonisé par les Chinois . 
FRENCH Je pense que nous devons voter , bien sûr , massivement pour cette résolution , mais que nous devons aussi voter pour l ' amendement qui a été déposé par M. - Thomas Mann , par le groupe libéral et par le groupe des Verts , amendement qui demande à nos gouvernements de prendre en considération la possibilité de reconnaître le gouvernement tibétain en exil si , dans un délai de trois ans , les autorités chinoises et le gouvernement tibétain en exil n ' ont pas , finalement , conclu un accord sur une autonomie substantielle du Tibet . 
FRENCH Nous ne pouvons plus laisser à la seule bonne et , dans ce cas - ci , à la très mauvaise volonté des autorités de Pékin la pleine latitude de ne pas affronter ce problème . 
FRENCH Nous devons les obliger , nous devons affirmer , par l ' - action politique de notre Parlement , notre volonté que , finalement , cette question qui dure depuis 50 ans soit résolue . 
FRENCH Je voudrais lancer un appel particulier aux amis de la gauche , aux amis socialistes , aux amis communistes - : ne continuez pas à avoir deux poids , deux mesures - ! 
FRENCH Nous nous rappelons tous les grandes batailles pour la décolonisation de l ' Afrique , la libération de l ' Algérie , du Vietnam . 
FRENCH Avec les résultats que l ' on voit aujourd ' hui - : ce dernier pays est toujours aux mains d ' un système totalitaire , dictatorial . 
FRENCH Il y a aujourd ' hui , au Tibet , une lutte non violente pour la démocratie . 
FRENCH Il n ' y a aucune raison de ne pas faire ici ce que nous avons fait là , nombreux , dans ces années - là . 
FRENCH Il faut aujourd ' hui que la question du Tibet devienne une question de droit , une question d ' affirmation de la non - violence par la communauté internationale . 
FRENCH La Chine est un grand pays , qui a droit à la démocratie . 
FRENCH C ' est évident , mais cela ne peut pas être une raison pour sacrifier encore le droit des Tibétains à vivre avec leur propre culture , dans une pleine autonomie dans tous les domaines qui doivent régir les peuples . 
FRENCH J ' invite donc , très sincèrement , les amis socialistes et les amis communistes à voter pour cette résolution et cet amendement , à faire en sorte que notre Parlement soit une fois au moins à l ' avant - garde de cette bataille de la liberté , de la démocratie et de la non - violence . 
FRENCH Madame la Présidente , joyeux anniversaire au Dalaï Lama - ! 
FRENCH J ' - ignore toutefois si ce jour est réellement synonyme de joie pour lui étant donné que la principale contribution de l ' Union européenne au monde consiste à monter aux créneaux pour défendre le respect des droits de l ' homme et de la démocratie , lesquels ne sont toujours pas respectés au Tibet . 
FRENCH Sous cet angle , je voudrais soulever les questions suivantes . 
FRENCH Premièrement , pour quelles raisons n ' y a - t - il toujours pas de véritable dialogue officiel entre le gouvernement chinois et le gouvernement tibétain en exil - ? 
FRENCH Tous ces contacts indirects ne mènent à rien . 
FRENCH Par le biais du Parlement européen , nous devons adopter une position plus ferme pour soutenir le principe de non - violence , d ' - où cette résolution . 
FRENCH Deuxièmement , pour quelles raisons une institution renommée telle que la Banque mondiale est - elle sur le point de financer un programme chinois qui implique une vulgaire colonisation du Tibet - ? 
FRENCH Il est intolérable d ' accorder notre attention au peuple tibétain uniquement quand cela nous sied . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , Monsieur le Commissaire Verheugen , Mesdames et Messieurs , la Banque mondiale prend demain une décision d ' une importance capitale pour le Tibet . 
FRENCH Dans l ' ouest de la Chine , l ' aide internationale doit permettre de réduire la pauvreté , et qui ne serait pas prêt à aider ceux qui ne peuvent subvenir à leurs besoins . 
FRENCH Dans le cadre de ce projet , 58 000 personnes doivent cependant être déplacées au Tibet , à savoir dans une proportion qui conduira à ce que les Tibétains deviennent progressivement une minorité sur leur propre territoire , et ce après des décennies de destruction de leur culture , leurs monastères , après des poursuites et des menaces de mort - ! 
FRENCH Nous avons demandé au conseil d ' administration de la Banque mondiale de d ' abord étudier dans le détail le rapport des inspecteurs indépendants . 
FRENCH Lorsque des fonds publics sont utilisés , la justification de telles dépenses doit être publiée . 
FRENCH Renforcée par son adhésion prochaine à l ' OMC , la Chine est de plus en plus consciente de son futur rôle de puissance mondiale , comme j ' ai pu m ' en apercevoir récemment à Pékin . 
FRENCH L ' autonomie totale promise au Tibet doit enfin être assurée . 
FRENCH Elle implique la liberté de culte , la liberté d ' opinion et le respect des particularités culturelles et sociales . 
FRENCH Il convient de mener les dialogues bilatéraux avec les responsables autorisés . 
FRENCH Le Dalaï Lama y est prêt à tout moment . 
FRENCH Ce prix Nobel , cette personnalité reconnue dans le monde entier , célèbre aujourd ' hui -- ma collègue l ' a déjà signalé -- son 65e anniversaire et est depuis 50 ans le plus haut responsable du Tibet . 
FRENCH Son plan de paix en cinq points , qui illustre la voie non violente qu ' il préconise , continue de prévaloir . 
FRENCH Il est grand temps qu ' un dialogue constructif soit mené sur cette base . 
FRENCH Au nom du groupe PPE et de l ' intergroupe Tibet , j ' appelle tous les membres du Parlement européen à soutenir notre résolution . 
FRENCH Seul une protestation mondiale peu avant la décision de la Banque mondiale , à savoir demain , peut empêcher une évolution néfaste et lourde de conséquences . 
FRENCH Tashi delek - ! 
FRENCH Madame la Présidente , Monsieur le Commissaire , chers collègues , nous sommes sur le point d ' adopter pour la treizième fois une résolution sur le Tibet et , si nous nous penchons sur les résultats , force nous est d ' - admettre qu ' ils sont particulièrement maigres . 
FRENCH C ' est la raison pour laquelle je m ' adresse au commissaire . 
FRENCH Je voudrais que l ' Union européenne et ses trois puissantes institutions s ' adressent d ' - une seule et même voix à l ' opinion mondiale , aux autorités chinoises et à la Banque mondiale en particulier . 
FRENCH Mes collègues l ' ont d ' - ores et déjà souligné . Nous devons mettre un terme à cette colonisation interne , à ce meurtre cruel de l ' individualité culturelle du peuple tibétain . 
FRENCH Nous ne pouvons y parvenir que si la Banque mondiale cesse de financer des projets qui ne vont pas dans ce sens , c ' - est - à - dire des projets qui permettent aux Chinois d ' importer leurs produits au Tibet en vue de détruire la culture d ' origine . 
FRENCH Nous ne pouvons pas dépenser l ' argent du contribuable à cet effet . 
FRENCH J ' espère que vous collaborerez également à l ' - amorce d ' - un changement de cap , comme le demandent mes collègues dans l ' amendement qui prévoit que , si aucun changement n ' est observé dans les trois ans à venir , nous finirons par reconnaître le gouvernement provisoire du Tibet au lieu de continuer à trépigner sur place . 
FRENCH Nous estimons qu ' il est primordial que le Parlement se prononce contre cette décision de la Banque mondiale . Nous soulignons que les gouvernements doivent faire tout leur possible et déployer tous les moyens - - également les moyens économiques dont nous disposons , vu que la Chine voudrait adhérer à l ' OMC , etc . 
FRENCH Ces négociations devraient se baser - - on l ' a déjà rappelé - - sur les cinq points du programme du Dalaï Lama , que nous soutenons et à qui nous souhaitons un joyeux anniversaire . 
FRENCH Il ne faut jamais permettre que cela devienne un fait accompli , d ' où l ' amendement à cette résolution pour mettre la pression sur la Chine , que je soutiens vivement . 
FRENCH D ' où , également , la résolution globale pour demander à la Banque mondiale qu ' elle retire son soutien à nos prétendus projets qui impliqueraient le déplacement de quelque 60 - 000 Chinois dans une région actuellement habitée par 4000 Tibétains vivant de leur cheptel et l ' exploitation des ressources naturelles du Tibet . 
FRENCH Ces actions sont immorales , toutes deux vont à l ' encontre du droit international , toutes deux requièrent une action de la part de ce Parlement et de l ' Union en faveur du Tibet et de sa population . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , pour commencer , je voudrais préciser que je parle aujourd ' hui au nom de la gauche verte nordique . 
FRENCH Nous pensons que les Tibétains doivent obtenir l ' autonomie à laquelle ils aspirent . 
FRENCH Par ailleurs , nous sommes inquiets de la réticence de la Chine à prendre part à un dialogue . 
FRENCH Je voudrais m ' adresser au commissaire et lui dire que j ' espère que la Commission a beaucoup de bons contacts avec le représentant de la Banque mondiale . 
FRENCH La décision doit être prise dès demain . 
FRENCH Nous avons donc très peu de temps pour convaincre la Banque mondiale , tout comme cette résolution s ' y applique . 
FRENCH Il est généralement très difficile d ' influencer la Banque mondiale . 
FRENCH Je voudrais donc avoir un rapport pour savoir si ces institutions ont en général la possibilité de le faire ou si nous devons chercher toute la nuit à convaincre notre représentant gouvernemental . 
FRENCH Le Conseil n ' est en grande partie pas présent ici . 
FRENCH Madame la Présidente , j ' ai eu l ' occasion de vérifier personnellement la situation au Tibet , une situation bien plus grave , humiliante et douloureuse que tout ce qui peut être exprimé en ce Parlement ou dans une autre assemblée . 
FRENCH Ces quarante dernières années , les Chinois ont vraiment nié la liberté des Tibétains , effacé l ' identité de ce peuple et , surtout , violé ses droits et sa dignité . 
FRENCH Voilà pourquoi il est nécessaire qu ' un Parlement aussi sensible aux droits de l ' homme et à la lutte contre la xénophobie et le racisme exige que la Chine négocie un nouveau statut prévoyant la reconnaissance des droits du peuple tibétain , un statut lui garantissant la pleine autonomie . 
FRENCH Je voudrais être claire , quitte à risquer de susciter la polémique . 
FRENCH Trêve d ' hypocrisie - : il est en effet inutile d ' adopter , comme nous le faisons aujourd ' hui , une résolution pétrie de bonnes intentions , pleine de belles paroles et même de critiques si c ' est pour ensuite que nos ministres ou les maires de nos capitales accueillent les autorités chinoises , peut - être pour des motifs économiques et commerciaux , avec les plus grands honneurs . Cela sera le cas demain à Rome , où M. - Rutelli , qui , en dehors d ' être député européen , est aussi le premier magistrat de cette ville , recevra officiellement le Premier ministre chinois , ou du moins une délégation de ce pays . 
FRENCH Je crois que si nous continuons à sacrifier les principes et les droits sur l ' autel de l ' économie , il sera bien difficile , au - delà des déclarations d ' intention qu ' on peut lancer dans les assemblées parlementaires , d ' arriver à une véritable solution pour le peuple tibétain . 
FRENCH Notre inquiétude concerne plus particulièrement le respect de l ' identité culturelle , linguistique et religieuse de la région autonome du Tibet par les autorités chinoises . 
FRENCH Nous avons une nouvelle fois soulevé ce point dans le cadre du dialogue bilatéral avec la Chine sur la question des droits de l ' homme . 
FRENCH L ' Union européenne a surtout exigé que le dialogue avec le Dalaï Lama reprenne le plus rapidement possible . 
FRENCH Nous sommes d ' avis que la reprise d ' un dialogue direct entre le Dalaï Lama et les autorités chinoises constitue la seule voix réaliste permettant de dégager une solution durable et pacifique à la question du Tibet . 
FRENCH Eu égard à cette collaboration , l ' Union européenne est d ' avis que le soutien des projets d ' aide au Tibet est dans l ' intérêt de la population tibétaine , pour autant que le groupe ethnique des Tibétains profite directement de ces projets et qu ' il reçoive la priorité lors de la gestion de ces projets . 
FRENCH C ' est exactement ce qui s ' est passé autrefois grâce à la promesse officielle des autorités chinoises à ce sujet . 
FRENCH En ce qui concerne le projet de la Banque mondiale , je peux vous informer que la Commission ne participe par à ce projet . 
FRENCH C ' est pourquoi je ne pense pas que nous pouvons encore avoir de grandes possibilités d ' influence en toute dernière minute . 
FRENCH Si une telle possibilité demeure , c ' est surtout par le biais des États membres . 
FRENCH Droits de l ' homme 
FRENCH L ' ordre du jour appelle en discussion commune les propositions de résolution suivantes - : 
FRENCH B5 - 0622 / 2000 de M. Mauro et autres , au nom du groupe du parti populaire européen ( démocrates chrétiens ) et démocrates européens , sur l ' enlèvement d ' enfants par l ' ALR - ; 
FRENCH B5 - 0630 / 2000 de MM . Sylla et Vinci , au nom du groupe confédéral de la gauche unitaire européenne / gauche verte nordique , sur l ' Ouganda - ; 
FRENCH B5 - 0637 / 2000 de Mmes Maes et Lambert , au nom du groupe des Verts / alliance libre européenne , sur l ' enlèvement d ' enfants en Ouganda - ; 
FRENCH Situation aux Moluques 
FRENCH B5 - 0609 / 2000 de M. Belder , au nom du groupe du parti européen des libéraux démocrates et réformateurs , sur les Moluques - ; 
FRENCH B5 - 0612 / 2000 de M. Maaten , au nom du groupe du parti européen des libéraux démocrates et réformateurs , sur les Moluques 
FRENCH B5 - 0623 / 2000 de Mme Maij - Weggen , au nom du groupe du parti populaire européen ( démocrates - chrétiens ) et des démocrates européens , sur les Moluques - ; 
FRENCH B5 - 0643 / 2000 de Mmes McKenna et Lagendijk , au nom du groupe des Verts / alliance libre européenne , sur les Moluques - ; 
FRENCH B5 - 0647 / 2000 de M. van den Berg , au nom du groupe du parti des socialistes européens , sur les Moluques - ; 
FRENCH Peine de mort aux États - Unis 
FRENCH B5 - 0613 / 2000 de Mme Malmström , MM . Haarder et Watson , au nom du groupe du parti européen des libéraux , démocrates et réformateurs , sur la peine de mort aux États - Unis et le cas du citoyen italo - américain Derek Rocco Barnabei - ; 
FRENCH B5 - 0619 / 2000 de M. Dupuis et autres , au nom du groupe technique des députés indépendants - groupe mixte , sur l ' exécution prochaine de Derek Rocco Barnabei en Virginie - ; 
FRENCH B5 - 0624 / 2000 de M. Salafranca Sánchez - Neyra et autres , au nom du groupe du parti populaire européen ( démocrates - chrétiens ) et des démocrates européens , sur la peine de mort aux États - Unis - ; 
FRENCH B5 - 0631 / 2000 de M. Cossutta et autres , au nom du groupe confédéral de la gauche unitaire européenne / gauche verte nordique , sur la peine de mort aux USA et le cas de M. Derek Rocco Barnabei - ; 
FRENCH Hooligans 
FRENCH B5 - 0625 / 2000 de M. Van Hecke et autres , au nom du groupe du parti populaire européen ( démocrates - chrétiens ) et des démocrates européens , sur le " hooliganisme " pendant l ' Euro 2000 - ; 
FRENCH B5 - 0632 / 2000 de MM . Papayannakis , Sylla et Cossutta , au nom du groupe confédéral de la gauche unitaire européenne / gauche verte nordique , sur le " hooliganisme " pendant l ' Euro 2000 - ; 
FRENCH B5 - 0649 / 2000 de MM . Desama et van den Berg , au nom du groupe du parti des socialistes européens , sur le " hooliganisme " pendant l ' Euro 2000 - ; 
FRENCH Irak 
FRENCH B5 - 0614 / 2000 de M. Nicholson of Winterbourne , au nom du groupe du parti européen des libéraux , démocrates et réformateurs , sur l ' Irak - ; 
FRENCH B5 - 0618 / 2000 de Mme Muscardini et M. Andrews , au nom du groupe union pour l ' Europe des nations , sur l ' Irak - ; 
FRENCH B5 - 633 / 2000 de Mme Morgantini et autres , au nom du groupe confédéral de la gauche unitaire européenne / gauche verte nordique , sur l ' Irak - ; 
FRENCH B5 - 0639 / 2000 de Mme McKenna et autres , au nom du groupe des Verts / alliance libre européenne , sur l ' embargo des Nations unies en Irak - ; 
FRENCH Enfants - soldats en Ouganda 
FRENCH Madame la Présidente , Monsieur le Commissaire , beaucoup de choses peuvent être dites sur cette affaire . 
FRENCH Tout d ' abord , j ' espère par - dessus tout que le Conseil et la Commission seront actifs au moment d ' aborder cette question au Conseil de sécurité lorsque le plan d ' action portant sur les enfants utilisés dans les conflits armés sera débattu à la fin de ce mois . 
FRENCH Cette solution est la résolution dite " diamant " du Conseil de sécurité . 
FRENCH Troisièmement , nous pouvons constater que nous avons fait certains progrès généraux en ce qui concerne les enfants - soldats . 
FRENCH Nous avons le protocole additionnel non gouvernemental portant sur les enfants - soldats et les activités en Afrique . 
FRENCH J ' espère aussi que les États membres de l ' UE aborderont ensemble la question au Conseil de sécurité à la fin du mois lors de la suite du débat général sur les enfants dans les conflits armés . 
FRENCH Madame la Présidente , la situation dans le nord de l ' Ouganda et dans le sud du Soudan donne un aperçu du drame des enfants soldats . 
FRENCH Cette intervention a pour but , à l ' instar de la résolution déposée , de pousser le Parlement et les institutions européennes à prendre des initiatives plus stables , allant au - delà de l ' actualité . 
FRENCH Le conflit armé est dans cette région une constante des trente dernières années . La société civile a été totalement dévastée et , depuis plus de douze ans , divers groupes de rebelles ont perpétré des massacres parmi les populations du nord de l ' Ouganda . 
FRENCH À ce jour , environ soixante pour cent des soldats de la Lord ' s Resistance Army sont des enfants de moins de seize ans . 
FRENCH Les jeunes filles sont données comme femmes aux rebelles , mais ce qu ' il faut remarquer , c ' est que l ' attitude de la LRA n ' a pas évolué , même après les accords de Nairobi passés entre l ' Ouganda et le Soudan en décembre dernier . 
FRENCH J ' ai eu l ' occasion , ces derniers jours , de parler avec une des jeunes filles , qui s ' est enfuie des camps du sud du Soudan et qui m ' a confirmé que la LRA n ' a pas la moindre intention de changer de position . 
FRENCH Le fait que l ' on ait célébré aujourd ' hui en Ouganda les funérailles de John Baptista Ochaia , représentant du président dans le district de Kitgum et mort avant - hier à la suite de blessures encourues lors d ' une embuscade de la LRA , le prouve à suffisance . 
FRENCH Il est dès lors inacceptable que les autorités européennes et de nombreuses entreprises commerciales de notre continent ferment les yeux sur cette situation sans vouloir briser le cercle qui vole la vie de toute une génération . 
FRENCH Madame la Présidente , chers collègues , les guerres sont toujours cruelles , et les guerres civiles , plus horribles encore . 
FRENCH On a pourtant franchi un seuil supplémentaire dans la barbarie et l ' abjection en utilisant des enfants pour se battre , pour tuer ou se faire tuer . 
FRENCH Ainsi , la LRA , résistance armée , n ' hésite pas à kidnapper des garçons de sept ans , à les soumettre à des brutalités extrêmes pour les former à se battre et à terroriser des villageois . 
FRENCH Elle n ' hésite pas non plus à se livrer à l ' exploitation sexuelle des femmes et des jeunes filles . 
FRENCH Ces enfants , lorsqu ' ils survivent , il faut le savoir , sont de toute façon marqués à vie . 
FRENCH Il faut du temps , de la patience , de l ' amour , pour leur redonner de l ' espoir . 
FRENCH C ' est pour cela qu ' il faut amplifier l ' aide et le soutien à l ' UNICEF qui a mis en place un programme d ' action permettant à des enfants de revenir à une vie normale . 
FRENCH Il faut également , Madame la Présidente , arrêter de tergiverser . 
FRENCH Il s ' agit là , pour moi , d ' une complicité qui le rend tout aussi coupable . 
FRENCH Et le Parlement doit intervenir auprès du gouvernement ougandais pour qu ' il trouve une solution pacifique à ce conflit du nord de l ' Ouganda , qui a fait en quinze ans , je vous le rappelle , 100.000 morts . 
FRENCH Toute la population l ' attend et tous les enfants l ' espèrent . 
FRENCH Le Conseil de sécurité doit l ' entendre . 
FRENCH Madame la Présidente , je suis vraiment contente que cette résolution ait abouti . 
FRENCH J ' espère que la Commission et les États membres seront invités à prendre de réelles décisions sur cette question . 
FRENCH Il y a quelques semaines , la télévision suédoise a diffusé un documentaire sur le sud du Soudan . 
FRENCH Ce documentaire montrait que les investisseurs et compagnies pétrolières étrangers , dont une de mon pays natal , la Suède , protégeaient les troupes qui utilisaient des enfants - soldats . 
FRENCH Ces accusations ont également été soutenues par Amnesty international , qui a expliqué que les revenus du pétrole étaient en outre utilisés pour financer la guerre civile dans le sud du Soudan . 
FRENCH Des enfants - soldats d ' Ouganda , enrôlés de force dans les conflits armés , y sont utilisés . 
FRENCH Nous devons mettre la pression sur les compagnies pétrolières internationales et sur les investisseurs . 
FRENCH Nous devons , comme indiqué dans le point 8 de la résolution , encourager vivement ces compagnies à mettre un terme à leurs activités au Soudan jusqu ' à ce que l ' on ait trouvé une solution pacifique au conflit . 
FRENCH Madame la Présidente , je voudrais avant tout exprimer ma reconnaissance envers notre collègue M. - Van - Hecke et son épouse Mme - Els - De - Temmerman , pour l ' engagement dont ils ont fait preuve en vue de publier au niveau européen toutes sortes d ' - informations détaillées sur la question des enfants - soldats dans le nord de l ' Ouganda . 
FRENCH En dépit de l ' - accord de Nairobi signé en 1999, il est clair qu ' on n ' est pas parvenu à appliquer cet accord dans une mesure suffisante . 
FRENCH D ' où la question relative à l ' influence de l ' Union européenne et à la volonté de tous les États membres d ' entreprendre des démarches communes en la matière . 
FRENCH Je voudrais aussi demander concrètement au commissaire Verheugen s ' il compte paralyser et mettre un terme -- point énoncé très clairement dans cette résolution -- aux investissements destinés aux puits et aux oléoducs au Soudan . 
FRENCH Ce type d ' action est vivement souhaité et ce , dans les meilleurs délais . 
FRENCH J ' en profite également pour aborder le thème bien plus vaste des Nations unies . 
FRENCH L ' Assemblée générale a adopté le protocole en mai . 
FRENCH Le Conseil de Sécurité ouvrira les débats en juillet . 
FRENCH Ce serait là une occasion rêvée pour donner un bel exemple d ' une Europe qui ne se manifeste pas uniquement au niveau interne mais aussi externe et pour que les États membres de l ' Union européenne plaident tous ensemble pour les dix - huit ans , une signature rapide et une action coordonnée efficace des différents pays en matière d ' éducation et de réinsertion des enfants - soldats dans le monde du travail . 
FRENCH Sur le plan financier , nous intervenons dans plusieurs pays . 
FRENCH Notre état de services est également bon en la matière . 
FRENCH Ce serait fantastique de pouvoir intervenir sous un seul visage et d ' une seule voix . 
FRENCH Je souhaiterais donc que le commissaire Verheugen nous dise à quel niveau il estime nos chances de succès en juillet . 
FRENCH Beaucoup de ces jeunes filles ont perdu le contact avec leurs familles et sont parties de leur maison depuis de nombreuses années . 
FRENCH À la suite de viols et d ' abus sexuels , elles sont devenues mères à leur tour , ce qui les éloignent encore plus des communautés auxquelles elles ont été arrachées aussi brutalement . 
FRENCH Quel que soit le nombre de résolutions magnifiquement formulées que nous ayons , tant que nous ne parvenons pas , au sein de la Communauté , à nous attaquer aux problèmes liés aux enfants dans notre propre communauté , notre voix ne sera pas assez forte pour manifester nos inquiétudes à ce sujet . 
FRENCH Nombre de nos politiques portent sur les droits et intérêts des enfants , mais cette semaine le commissaire Prodi a déclaré qu ' il n ' estimait pas nécessaire de créer une unité spéciale chargée des droits des enfants au sein de la Communauté . 
FRENCH Cela va affaiblir notre voix si nous essayons de l ' élever dans le contexte du Sommet spécial pour les enfants de l ' ONU l ' année prochaine , au cours duquel le problème des enfants - soldats occupera une place importante . 
FRENCH Situation aux îles Moluques 
FRENCH Madame la Présidente , les Moluques réclament une fois de plus notre attention . 
FRENCH Après une période relativement calme , l ' - arrivée récente de quelques milliers de militants du Djihad qui entendent islamiser les îles Moluques a provoqué de nouvelles escalades de violence . 
FRENCH Je ne veux pas passer sous silence l ' - attitude courageuse du président Wahid . 
FRENCH La semaine dernière , celui - ci a même osé critiquer la prise de position adoptée par des députés . 
FRENCH Si les choses dépendaient uniquement du président indonésien , nous pourrions espérer un avenir pacifique pour les Moluques . 
FRENCH Les forces obscures toujours présentes dans le système administratif , tant au niveau de l ' - armée et de la police que des autorités , déstabilisent toutefois fortement la situation . 
FRENCH Le démantèlement des éléments fondamentalistes des groupes religieux exige encore bien des efforts . 
FRENCH Je voudrais adresser quelques recommandations concrètes au gouvernement indonésien . 
FRENCH Il convient d ' - abord de lutter contre les arrivages de soldats et d ' - armes en renforçant les contrôles frontaliers . 
FRENCH Il faut ensuite reconsidérer la mise en & # x0153 ; uvre de troupes d ' - intervention internationales . 
FRENCH Les oppositions marquées au sein de l ' - armée et de la police semblent entraver la possibilité pour les Indonésiens de mettre eux - mêmes un point final aux conflits . 
FRENCH Enfin , je tiens à attirer l ' - attention sur le sort des victimes des conflits , c ' - est - à - dire les citoyens ordinaires . 
FRENCH Nous devons non seulement nous soucier de désigner les coupables dans le cadre du conflit mais surtout octroyer une aide adéquate aux citoyens en fuite . 
FRENCH Un couloir humanitaire est donc indispensable . 
FRENCH L ' - absence d ' - intérêts politiques et économiques dans cette région ne peut aucunement déterminer l ' - ampleur de notre aide . 
FRENCH Il s ' - agit de soulager une détresse véritable et celle - ci frappe les îles Moluques . 
FRENCH Madame la Présidente , l ' - histoire est - elle en train de se répéter en Indonésie - ? 
FRENCH Les confrontations sanglantes entre chrétiens et musulmans représentent une menace pour la sécurité dans les Moluques . 
FRENCH Des milliers de gens sont tués ou contraints de fuir , tandis que le tout jeune processus démocratique , ambitieux mais encore fort fragile , mis sur pied par le gouvernement Wahid est grandement menacé . 
FRENCH Les mêmes événements se sont déroulés au Timor oriental voici quelques mois . 
FRENCH En tant que député européen , j ' - ai pu constater sur place avec une délégation d ' - observateurs combien les conséquences d ' - un tel conflit peuvent être désolantes . 
FRENCH Nous devons prendre conscience que la violence dont les Moluques sont la proie menace la stabilité de toute la région . 
FRENCH Il est dès lors essentiel que la communauté internationale fournisse immédiatement une aide financière et morale en vue de résoudre les problèmes en Indonésie . 
FRENCH La communauté internationale a en outre le devoir de surveiller attentivement la situation et d ' - aider le gouvernement en place à mettre un terme à cette véritable tragédie humaine . 
FRENCH Cependant , la situation dans les Moluques est tellement grave qu ' - elle nécessite d ' - être traitée de toute urgence . 
FRENCH Après quelques mois d ' - accalmie , les actes de violence ont à nouveau embrasé la région ces dernières semaines et des milliers de personnes ont repris le chemin de l ' - exil . 
FRENCH Le drame du bateau de réfugiés originaires de Doema survenu à Halmahera a probablement coûté la vie à cinq cents personnes . 
FRENCH Hier encore , deux quartiers d ' - Ambon ont été réduits en cendres par des soldats du Djihad . 
FRENCH À ce jour , plus de trois mille personnes ont trouvé la mort dans la région et plus de cent mille autres ont pris la fuite . 
FRENCH La situation est catastrophique et nombre de familles moluquoises installées aux Pays - Bas sont plongées dans une angoisse mortelle ou dans le deuil . 
FRENCH Madame la Présidente , en dépit de ce drame , j ' - estime que nous devons accorder notre soutien au président Wahid et au vice - président Soekarnopoetri . 
FRENCH Ce ne sont pas eux , mais bien les forces opposées à ce gouvernement , qui semblent à l ' - origine de la situation observée dans les Moluques . 
FRENCH Les milices du Djihad sont apparemment financées et approvisionnées en armes par ces groupes - ; elles bénéficient en outre du soutien de forces militaires régionales , qui sont en fait censées protéger la population . 
FRENCH Nous estimons cependant que le gouvernement indonésien devrait intervenir de manière plus vigoureuse afin de protéger les habitants des Moluques . 
FRENCH Nous pensons également que les observateurs internationaux , les journalistes et les donneurs d ' - aide doivent avoir accès à la région pour aider la population civile . 
FRENCH Nous affirmons enfin que l ' - UE doit adopter une position très claire à ce propos , tout comme les États - Unis , et que l ' - UE doit intensifier l ' - assistance aux victimes . 
FRENCH Madame la Présidente , nos collègues des Verts ont déposé un certain nombre d ' - amendements qui partent sans doute d ' - une bonne intention mais qui sont à mon sens contraires à l ' - objectif poursuivi , dans la mesure où ils risquent de faire le jeu des forces opposées au gouvernement actuel , lesquelles alimentent les provocations dans les îles Moluques . 
FRENCH C ' - est la raison pour laquelle je rejette l ' - amendement relatif à l ' - article 7 a et j ' - invite mes collègues des autres groupes à en faire autant . 
FRENCH La résolution abonde dans ce sens et je demande à la Commission européenne d ' - y répondre favorablement . 
FRENCH Il s ' - agit d ' - une lutte pour le pouvoir , brutale et savamment orchestrée , entre des fractions de l ' - armée , entre le gouvernement et les opposants du gouvernement et ce , au détriment de la population locale . 
FRENCH D ' - une part , on trouve le Laskar Djihad , un groupe de musulmans fanatiques soutenus par des éléments de l ' - armée . 
FRENCH D ' - autre part , des troupes de police spéciales qui soutiennent les chrétiens . 
FRENCH En d ' - autres termes , le système de sécurité supposé garantir la stabilité est divisé entre les deux camps . 
FRENCH J ' - estime pour ma part -- et j ' - espère pouvoir rassurer ma collègue Mme Maij - Weggen à ce propos -- que le Parlement européen doit adresser un message au président Wahid , dans lequel nous affirmons notre volonté de rester critiques à l ' - égard des progrès et de la rapidité des réformes , ainsi que sur la situation des droits de l ' - homme et la manière dont le gouvernement protège les citoyens des Moluques . 
FRENCH Par ailleurs , ce message devrait également l ' - assurer de notre soutien dans le cadre de la lutte menée contre les éléments de l ' - armée qui tentent de miner les réformes démocratiques , dans le combat qui l ' - oppose à des gens comme Amien Rais , le président du congrès du peuple , lequel a notamment qualifié de " c & # x0153 ; ur de la nation " les jeunes gens dévoués à la cause du Laskar Djihad . 
FRENCH Madame la Présidente , au nom du groupe socialiste , je voudrais dire combien nous adhérons aux paroles prononcées par Mme Maij - Weggen . 
FRENCH En ce moment , il est essentiel de soutenir le gouvernement Wahid . 
FRENCH Ce soutien implique également -- je pense que la Commission européenne et le Conseil font ainsi preuve de sagesse -- la recherche de moyens susceptibles d ' - aider ce gouvernement dans ses tentatives de pacification et d ' - intervention active . 
FRENCH Nous jetons également un regard très critique sur ce qui se passe là - bas et nous nous préoccupons aussi de la communauté moluquoise des Pays - Bas , des sentiments et des inquiétudes de cette dernière . 
FRENCH Nous insistons donc pour que le président Wahid reçoive notre soutien , parce qu ' - à partir du moment où l ' - on propose d ' - envoyer des observateurs internationaux ou d ' - autres formes d ' - aide en dehors du président , nous sapons l ' - autorité de ce dernier . 
FRENCH Je partage dès lors la position du PPE et je voudrais , devant cette Assemblée , plaider avec insistance en faveur d ' - une approche dans le cadre de laquelle nous témoignerions notre grande préoccupation , notre disposition à accorder notre soutien aux îles Moluques , mais par l ' - intermédiaire de Wahid - ; nous pouvons poser des exigences mais par le truchement du président , car nous devons jouer cette carte pour l ' - instant . 
FRENCH Madame la Présidente , je trouve que notre collègue Maij - Weggen a bien raison de qualifier la situation de catastrophique . 
FRENCH C ' est en effet une situation compliquée , avec de nombreux morts , qui suscite la réflexion suivante de notre part - : pourquoi des communautés qui vivent en relative coexistence pacifique évoluent - elles subitement vers ce niveau de tension et de menaces - ? 
FRENCH Je pense que derrière ces actions , il y a des forces qui s ' activent et que la similitude entre un certain type d ' action aujourd ' hui en & # x0153 ; uvre dans les Moluques et hier au Timor oriental est fort significative . 
FRENCH Il y a en effet derrière ces mouvements des forces qui veulent saper les efforts de démocratisation du président Wahid , nous devons les comprendre et les combattre . 
FRENCH De ce point de vue , je crois que les références faites dans la résolution de compromis qui a été présentée sont fort opportunes et méritent tout notre soutien . 
FRENCH Peine de mort aux États - Unis 
FRENCH Madame la Présidente , dans la résolution sur la peine de mort que nous avons présentée avec les autres groupes , nous avons demandé au gouverneur de l ' État de Virginie de sauver la vie d ' un condamné . 
FRENCH Dans la liste des destinataires de notre résolution , son nom a été oublié par erreur . 
FRENCH Je vous demande donc de faire ajouter à la fin du texte de notre résolution le nom du gouverneur de Virginie , auquel notre pétition s ' adresse . 
FRENCH Oui , cher collègue , vous avez tout à fait raison . 
FRENCH Dans le corps de la résolution , il était fait référence à cet État . 
FRENCH Il convient donc , sur le plan technique , de la transmettre au gouverneur de Virginie et elle sera donc soumise au vote avec cette modification . 
FRENCH Madame la Présidente , nous pouvons tous souscrire à ce qui figure dans la résolution . 
FRENCH Nous savons que la commission des droits de l ' homme des Nations unies a recherché un moratoire en avril de l ' année dernière . 
FRENCH Cette année , cette demande a été réitérée . 
FRENCH L ' ONU a également demandé à tous les États qui appliquent toujours la peine de mort de réduire progressivement le nombre de crimes pour lesquels la peine de mort est appliquée . 
FRENCH Nous possédons beaucoup de chiffres révoltants quant au nombre de personnes qui attendent toujours leur exécution aux États - Unis . 
FRENCH D ' après les informations en ma possession , 3670 personnes sont concernées . 
FRENCH Dans la résolution , nous pointons du doigt l ' incertitude juridique qui règne dans les cas présents . 
FRENCH Il y a donc lieu d ' exiger que tous les cas soient examinés , ce qui signifie que l ' on doit revoir le cas des personnes qui attendent le prononcé de leur peine et voir , par exemple , si elles ont eu droit à un procès équitable . 
FRENCH C ' est la raison pour laquelle un moratoire est nécessaire dans l ' ensemble des cas , même ceux qui ne sont pas cités dans cette résolution . 
FRENCH C ' est avec espoir que nous constatons que la question de la peine de mort aux États - Unis a reçu un poids politique tout à fait nouveau . 
FRENCH J ' apprécie également le travail réalisé par les organisations de défense des droits de l ' homme en vue de soulever cette question . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , Monsieur le Commissaire , chers collègues , Mme Thors l ' a dit , il y a unanimité dans notre Assemblée pour soutenir cette résolution . 
FRENCH Nous devons nous interroger aussi sur l ' action de l ' Union européenne et sur sa capacité à poursuivre , au niveau des Nations unies et de la communauté internationale , cette initiative en faveur du moratoire international . 
FRENCH Nous savons la difficulté , due en bonne partie à leur caractère baroque , que rencontrent nos institutions , en particulier en matière de politique étrangère , domaine placé sous la responsabilité d ' un commissaire , d ' un Haut représentant et de quinze ministres des Affaires étrangères . 
FRENCH Pour ne pas répéter l ' échec de l ' année passée aux Nations unies , il est urgent que nous coordonnions l ' action de l ' Union européenne . 
FRENCH J ' ai présenté , en ce sens , un amendement pour demander que cette politique au sein des Nations unies en faveur de l ' institution d ' un moratoire universel soit coordonnée par le Haut représentant pour la politique étrangère et de sécurité commune . 
FRENCH J ' invite donc les collègues à soutenir ces amendements . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , chers collègues , nous demandons en cette Assemblée au gouverneur de l ' État de Virginie de sauver la vie d ' un condamné à mort probablement innocent , Derek Rocco Barnabei . 
FRENCH Tandis que nous discutons de notre résolution , on stérilise dans une cellule du même État les aiguilles qui serviront à l ' injection qui tuera dans quelques heures Michael Clagget , coupable présumé de plusieurs homicides il y a quelques années . 
FRENCH Je ne sais plus combien de résolutions nous avons approuvées au cours des deux dernières législatures dans l ' espoir un peu vain de mettre un terme , aux États - Unis et ailleurs , aux peines capitales . 
FRENCH Il est certain que de nombreuses autres exécutions auront lieu , à un rythme plus soutenu , d ' ici le mois d ' août en Virginie et dans d ' autres États , notamment et surtout au Texas , dont le gouverneur - - presque certainement le prochain président des États - Unis d ' Amérique - - détient un record absolu , celui d ' avoir mis à mort 132 êtres humains au cours des cinq dernières années . 
FRENCH J ' ignore si George W. Bush se vante de ce record , mais je sais - - il me l ' a écrit lui - même dans une lettre datée du 22 mars - - qu ' il est persuadé de faire appliquer en toute sérénité les décisions d ' une justice équitable et infaillible . 
FRENCH Dans la résolution à l ' étude , nous avons pris acte du nouveau débat en cours aux États - Unis - : non pas sur l ' abolition de la peine de mort , mais bien sur un moratoire qui mène à une gestion plus sûre , mais pas moins sans pitié . 
FRENCH Nous avons peut - être bien fait , mais je crains que toutes nos tentatives - - comme l ' a d ' ailleurs écrit dernièrement le quotidien américain Herald Tribune - - soient vouées à rester flatus vocis , lettre morte . Dès lors , chers collègues , le moment est peut - être venu non pas de boycotter et de prendre des sanctions , ce qui nous détestons faire , mais par exemple de promouvoir le tourisme européen dans la seule douzaine d ' États américains qui n ' appliquent pas la peine de mort . 
FRENCH Le risque de représailles est élevé , très élevé - : si nous renonçons à Donald Duck et à Disneyworld en Floride , les Américains boycotteront le Louvre et la Joconde . 
FRENCH C ' est un risque qu ' il faut désormais courir dans une dernière tentative de mettre fin à une pratique aussi barbare , aussi infamante pour l ' humanité . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , les États - Unis , rappelons - le , sont le premier pays à avoir , une convention des droits de l ' homme bien définie et justiciable et ce , depuis plus longtemps que tout autre pays au monde . 
FRENCH C ' est par conséquent une terrible ironie que les États - Unis soient un des rares pays développés à toujours conserver et appliquer la peine de mort . 
FRENCH Nous sommes confrontés aujourd ' hui à un cas particulier , celui de Derek Rockwell Barnabei - : chaque être humain est un individu en soi et doit être défendu en tant que tel . 
FRENCH Nous lançons aujourd ' hui un appel pour qu ' il ait la vie sauve , mais il représente aussi un symbole d ' une pratique que nous trouvons effroyable et que nous savons se dérouler dans de nombreuses régions des États - Unis . 
FRENCH Je suis personnellement un grand amateur des États - Unis et de nombreux aspects de son mode de vie . 
FRENCH Je me suis souvent rendu à la faculté de droit de l ' Université du Texas et dans d ' autres facultés de droit des États - Unis . 
FRENCH Je les admire beaucoup , mais je suis réellement triste de voir l ' état et son gouverneur la pratiquer aussi souvent et s ' en vanter dans les campagnes présidentielles . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , l ' urgence de notre résolution est motivée par le cas de Derek Rocco Barnabei . 
FRENCH Dans ce cas précis , il y a de sérieuses présomptions , également dans l ' opinion publique américaine , d ' erreur judiciaire . 
FRENCH Il est évident que quand il s ' agit de la peine de mort , l ' erreur judiciaire est particulièrement grave . N ' oublions pas que des erreurs judiciaires ont été vérifiées dans des cas similaires et ce n ' est pas un hasard si elles concernaient des personnes qui n ' avaient pas les moyens de se payer un avocat . 
FRENCH Je crois que les facultés de droit des États - Unis fonctionnent bien parce que les avocats sont très bien payés , mais uniquement par ceux qui peuvent se permettre de recourir à leurs services . 
FRENCH Nous demandons donc la suspension de cette sentence , nous demandons que la présidence du Parlement - - compte tenu également du document signé par de très nombreux collègues ces jours - ci - - écrive directement aux autorités compétentes pour attirer de façon pressante l ' attention sur ce sujet et , évidemment , inviter à abolir la peine de mort aux États - Unis . Nous admirons ce pays pour tant d ' aspects . 
FRENCH Il est donc d ' autant plus scandaleux de le voir conserver ce rituel barbare . 
FRENCH Hooligans 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , le football est une fête . 
FRENCH C ' - est sous cette devise que la Belgique et les Pays - Bas ont organisé l ' - Euro 2000 au cours des trois semaines écoulées . 
FRENCH Sur le plan sportif , l ' - événement a aussi été une fête , sauf peut - être pour nos amis italiens . 
FRENCH Une fête qui a cependant été assombrie par le comportement de certains individus qui se prétendent supporters . 
FRENCH C ' - est surtout avant et après le match Allemagne - Angleterre que des troubles sérieux ont éclaté . 
FRENCH Cent septante - trois personnes ont dû se rendre à l ' - hôpital , mille quatre cents autres ont été arrêtées et cinq cents supporters anglais ont été rapatriés à bord d ' - avions C 130 . 
FRENCH Certaines personnes , même au sein de cette Assemblée , tentent de minimiser la chose . 
FRENCH En ce qui me concerne , Monsieur le Président , il y a toutefois des limites aux coûts sociaux importants générés par le hooliganisme . 
FRENCH Il est tout de même inconcevable qu ' - un pays doive prendre des allures d ' - État policier en raison d ' - un championnat de football . 
FRENCH En Belgique , mille cinq cents gendarmes en moyenne ont été mobilisés pour chaque match et ont en outre reçu le renfort de centaines de policiers locaux . 
FRENCH Il est grand temps que les gouvernements nationaux prennent des mesures préventives afin de garder chez eux le noyau dur des hooligans . 
FRENCH L ' - Allemagne a donné le bon exemple en la matière . 
FRENCH La question première ne concerne donc pas l ' - intensification ou la diminution des contrôles aux frontières mais bien une coopération policière cohérente . 
FRENCH Nous devons tirer des événements de Bruxelles et de Charleroi les conclusions qui s ' - imposent . 
FRENCH Des mesures sévères et une bonne collaboration sont plus que jamais requises pour endiguer cette violence insensée . 
FRENCH Le hooliganisme a franchi les frontières , au propre comme au figuré . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , on assiste à trop de tragédies dans et hors des stades . Ces phénomènes sont le signe d ' un déséquilibre et d ' un malaise social individuel , d ' une culture de la force brutale qui n ' a que faire de la raison et où la violence prévaut . 
FRENCH La résolution du Parlement réitère nos inquiétudes quant à l ' extension du phénomène du hooliganisme et demande des mesures de prévention auxquelles je m ' associe . 
FRENCH Dans cette situation , il est indispensable que les forces de l ' ordre , dans leur tâche difficile , ne perdent pas la tête elles aussi . 
FRENCH Je voudrais ici m ' insurger contre le comportement de la police néerlandaise vis - à - vis d ' une " bande " de journalistes italiens qui immortalisaient les difficultés rencontrées par un groupe d ' invalides portés à bras d ' homme parce qu ' il n ' y avait pas assez de places à leur disposition . 
FRENCH Les journalistes ont été empêchés d ' accomplir leur mission , frappés , jetés à terre et arrêtés . 
FRENCH Nous avons vu dans l ' enregistrement diffusé ce matin au Parlement des images qui ne laissent aucun doute sur la volonté flagrante d ' entraver la liberté de la presse . 
FRENCH Les interprétations de l ' événement divergent - ; c ' est pourquoi nous demandons aux autorités néerlandaises de mener une enquête pour en déterminer la responsabilité et voulons que des épisodes de ce genre ne se reproduisent plus jamais . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , le titre de l ' - ensemble n ' - est pas - ' hooligans ' - mais Euro 2000, et il me semble parfait . 
FRENCH Toute l ' - Europe est parvenue à organiser une gigantesque fête du foot , les autorités belges et néerlandaises en tête , et une masse incroyable de supporters a déferlé des quatre coins du continent . 
FRENCH Chacun éprouvait une peur extrême à l ' - idée des éventuelles violences , catastrophes et autres situations délicates . 
FRENCH Dans la pratique , la fête a été colossale et réussie - ; la présente résolution souligne donc à juste titre que nous pouvons féliciter la Belgique et les Pays - Bas . 
FRENCH Ensuite , on trouve un petit groupe de hooligans actifs depuis quelque temps déjà et dont l ' - intention non dissimulée consiste à gâcher ce genre de fête . 
FRENCH Ceux - ci n ' - ont fort heureusement atteint leur but que de façon limitée . 
FRENCH Nous en arrivons ainsi au troisième point - : l ' - incident italien . 
FRENCH De toute évidence , certains collègues ont reçu diverses informations à propos de ce qui s ' - est passé dans le stade de Rotterdam et certains éprouvent dès lors le sentiment que les choses ont sérieusement dégénéré , ce qui a également influencé leur jugement . 
FRENCH S ' - appuyant sur d ' - autres informations , d ' - aucuns ont l ' - impression que la situation s ' - est effectivement dégradée , mais pas au point de susciter de si lourdes accusations . 
FRENCH Il faut cependant reconnaître qu ' - il s ' est passé quelque chose et nous voulons exposer les faits tels qu ' - ils sont . 
FRENCH Je suis donc favorable à la mise en & # x0153 ; uvre d ' - une enquête par les autorités néerlandaises . 
FRENCH Celle - ci a été promise par le Premier ministre Kok et je fonderai mon jugement final sur ces faits . 
FRENCH Je tiens d ' - ores et déjà à exprimer toute ma sympathie et mon engagement à l ' - égard de nos collègues italiens . 
FRENCH Cela va de soi mais je veux néanmoins asseoir ce jugement sur des faits . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , je voudrais commencer par manifester mon intérêt , puisque je suis arbitre de football en division 1 depuis 18 ans et que je suis très attaché à la fédération anglaise de football , mais aussi par féliciter à la fois la France pour avoir gagné l ' Euro 2000 d ' une façon aussi fantastique et hélas , à contre c & # x0153 ; ur , l ' Allemagne pour avoir remporté l ' organisation de la Coupe du monde en 2006 . 
FRENCH Je prends note de ce qu ' a dit M. Van Hecke à propos du rapatriement de plusieurs supporters anglais dans des avions C130 . 
FRENCH Il est vraiment très regrettable que la police belge en ait fait trop en vidant les bars des supporters de football ordinaires et décents , en les emmenant avec les canailles que sont les hooligans . 
FRENCH La question est - : quel est le message qui a été envoyé par les autorités du football si l ' on revient quelques mois en arrière , avant l ' Euro 2000 - ? 
FRENCH Un problème a surgi lorsque deux supporters de Leeds ont été assassinés lors d ' un match de la coupe de l ' UEFA à Istanbul contre Galatasaray , mais aucune action n ' a été prise à l ' encontre de ce club -- ils n ' ont pas été éjectés de la coupe de l ' UEFA . 
FRENCH Au Danemark , lorsque Galatasaray a joué contre Arsenal , plusieurs supporters d ' Arsenal ont été arrêtés , mais n ' ont pas été inculpés de hooliganisme . 
FRENCH Ensuite , nous avons l ' inaction du gouvernement britannique , qui a choisi de ne pas imposer de sanctions supplémentaires en empêchant les personnes de voyager , même s ' ils savaient qu ' ils pourraient causer des problèmes . 
FRENCH Nous devrions pouvoir y assister , nous allons y aller et provoquer une bonne bagarre " , au lieu de regarder le splendide festival du football que cela aurait dû être . 
FRENCH Ce Parlement et d ' autres à l ' extérieur devraient faire marche arrière , puisque nous disposons maintenant d ' un moment de répit que nous pouvons mettre à profit pour envisager de façon raisonnée les actions à prendre avec réalisme à l ' encontre des hooligans , et les comparer aux droits des personnes de circuler librement dans tout le continent . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , je voudrais faire remarquer que cette résolution a pour titre " Euro 2000 " et non " Hooligans " , comme le tableau l ' indique . 
FRENCH En tant que parlementaires et hommes politiques , nous endossons une grande responsabilité vis - à - vis des phénomènes sportifs , en particulier ceux liés au football , à savoir celle de rappeler qu ' il ne s ' agit que d ' un jeu . 
FRENCH Nous devons donc nous inquiéter quand se greffent sur ce jeu trop d ' intérêts économiques ou une émotivité excessive que la politique ne peut plus aider . 
FRENCH Et quand le jeu est beau , comme ce fut le cas lors de ces championnats d ' Europe , c ' est notre succès à tous . 
FRENCH Je comprends également pourquoi il s ' agit pour les autorités qui doivent les organiser , d ' événements particulièrement complexes . Nous nous souvenons du drame du Heysel . 
FRENCH C ' est pourquoi je pense que nous pouvons nous féliciter de l ' organisation . Dans ce contexte positif , nous devons toutefois revenir sur l ' épisode de Rotterdam , notamment parce qu ' il s ' est déroulé dans des circonstances fort particulières touchant les possibilités d ' accès des personnes invalides à ces événements , un accès qui devrait être assuré dans la sérénité et la bonne humeur . 
FRENCH Nous avons en outre été stupéfait de la brutalité dont la police a fait preuve en frappant les journalistes qui rapportaient un problème sérieux quant à la possibilité d ' accès des personnes handicapées . 
FRENCH Je répète donc que , pour nous , il n ' y a pas d ' ordre venant d ' en haut . Il ne s ' agit que d ' un comportement inacceptable de la part des forces de l ' ordre . 
FRENCH C ' est pourquoi j ' invite tous les collègues à ne pas en faire un enjeu national , parce que je pense que tout le monde peut faire sien le contenu de la résolution de compromis . 
FRENCH Merci , chers collègues . 
FRENCH Étant donné que plusieurs d ' - entre vous se sont référés au titre du point à l ' - ordre du jour , pour que vous ne perdiez plus de temps sur une erreur , je le perdrai pour apporter quelques éclaircissements . 
FRENCH Le point de l ' - ordre du jour tel qu ' - il a été approuvé par l ' - Assemblée est " Hooligans " . 
FRENCH Le titre de la résolution peut être celui que vous avez mentionné , effectivement , mais à l ' - ordre du jour il s ' - agit de " Hooligans " , dans le paragraphe " Droits de l ' - homme " . 
FRENCH J ' - en profite pour préciser qu ' - en espagnol , " hooligans " est un anglicisme définissant des voyous spécialisés , normalement de nationalité britannique . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , chers collègues , la résolution de compromis que nous voterons d ' ici peu me semble particulièrement équilibrée . 
FRENCH Les événements de Rotterdam n ' entachent nullement notre jugement sur les droits de l ' homme ou sur la qualité des droits de l ' homme aux Pays - Bas , que j ' estime être un des pays les plus libéraux du monde , mais il reste un épisode grave , tant pour l ' attitude inqualifiable à l ' encontre de personnes invalides que pour la violence contre des journalistes qui ne faisaient rien d ' autre que leur devoir . 
FRENCH Peu importe qu ' ils soient italiens ou d ' une autre nationalité . 
FRENCH L ' Union européenne , à travers sa plus grande expression démocratique qu ' est le Parlement , ne peut que stigmatiser un tel événement qui s ' est produit en son sein . 
FRENCH Tout ce qui concerne les aspects nationaux fera l ' objet d ' actions éventuelles des gouvernements et ne nous regarde pas . 
FRENCH D ' ailleurs , l ' Union européenne , avec ses résolutions d ' urgence , n ' hésite pas à prendre des positions rigoureuses sur certains pays ou sur certains faits enregistrés n ' importe où dans le monde , quand les droits de l ' homme sont violés . 
FRENCH Quelle serait donc sa crédibilité si elle ne se montrait pas capable de dénoncer de tels événements qui se produisent en son sein - ? 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , je serai très bref sur le championnat même - : la France est une magnifique championne européenne et la crainte de voir les choses dégénérer massivement n ' - est en tout cas pas devenue réalité , malgré un certain nombre d ' - incidents regrettables auxquels M. Van Hecke faisait encore référence , notamment en raison des supporters anglais . 
FRENCH Après la finale -- et toute la discussion risque à présent de s ' - envenimer à ce propos mais il ne peut malheureusement en être autrement - , j ' - estime qu ' - un certain nombre de choses dépassant toute limite se sont produites , je pense entre autres au traitement brutal , trop brutal , des journalistes . 
FRENCH À mon sens , les policiers ou les stewards sous tension ont clairement outrepassé leurs compétences . 
FRENCH Toutefois , bien des incertitudes entourent encore ce qui s ' - est passé auparavant et les éléments qui ont déclenché les troubles . 
FRENCH Que s ' - est - il réellement passé avec les supporters italiens handicapés - ? 
FRENCH Savait - on qu ' - ils seraient aussi nombreux - ? 
FRENCH Je m ' - exprime en tant qu ' - habitué du Kuip et je sais que ce dernier possède des places pour les supporters handicapés , mais en nombre limité . 
FRENCH Ces supporters ne voulaient - ils pas être filmés ou ne pouvaient - ils pas l ' - être - ? 
FRENCH Ce genre de question doit trouver une réponse et le gouvernement néerlandais a promis de mener une enquête . 
FRENCH Je me retiendrai donc d ' - émettre tout jugement avant que les résultats soient connus . 
FRENCH Mon groupe votera par conséquent contre chaque élément de la résolution où un tel jugement est exprimé . 
FRENCH Je lance un appel , que j ' - espère convaincant , à nos collègues italiens et à la presse italienne , en les priant -- et je m ' - adresse surtout à nos collègues italiens -- de ne pas lancer toutes sortes de comparaisons avec le drame du Heysel . 
FRENCH L ' - affaire ne le mérite absolument pas . 
FRENCH En agissant de la sorte , on jette le doute sur les faits sérieux qui doivent faire l ' - objet d ' - une enquête . 
FRENCH Je voudrais donc dire ceci - : il s ' - est passé quelque chose , une enquête est en cours , mais je vous en prie , ne donnons pas des proportions démesurées à cette affaire . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , je vous remercie d ' avoir quand même rappelé que l ' intitulé du point de l ' ordre du jour que nous examinons est le hooliganisme . 
FRENCH Il y a deux mois , j ' interpellais le Parlement sur la nécessité d ' agir contre les dérapages que ne manqueraient pas de commettre les hooligans lors de l ' Euro - 2000 . 
FRENCH Les mesures prises par les autorités belges ont permis d ' atténuer les violences clairement racistes , xénophobes et homophobes des hooligans . 
FRENCH Il devient donc impérieux de réfléchir aux moyens à mettre en & # x0153 ; uvre pour neutraliser les auteurs de ces exactions , souvent manipulés par des mouvements d ' extrême - droite . 
FRENCH Il est encore trop facile aux hooligans de se déplacer en toute impunité au sein des pays de l ' Union . 
FRENCH Des sanctions immédiates doivent être prises dans les pays où ils se rendent coupables de délits . 
FRENCH Ceux qui sont identifiés et fichés pour avoir commis des agressions doivent être interdits d ' accès aux stades lors des grandes rencontres sportives . 
FRENCH Les clubs de supporters et les clubs de football doivent être davantage responsabilisés , parce qu ' il faut bien avouer que , par moment , ils soufflent sur la braise . 
FRENCH C ' est cette action de responsabilisation qu ' a menée le ministre de la Jeunesse et des Sports en France , Mme - Marie - Georges - Buffet , et qui a fini par porter ses fruits . 
FRENCH Je crois donc que le Parlement peut jouer un rôle véritable d ' impulsion auprès des États membres et auprès de l ' UEFA pour que de telles mesures entrent en application immédiatement , car le carton rouge , Monsieur le Président , doit certes s ' appliquer sur la pelouse , mais aussi à l ' égard des hooligans , dans et hors des stades . 
FRENCH Je ne peux cependant m ' - empêcher d ' - être convaincu que ces incidents blâmables ont été démesurément amplifiés , tant par une partie de la presse que par une partie de la classe politique . 
FRENCH En tant que représentant d ' - un des pays organisateurs , je tiens à féliciter tous ceux et celles qui ont participé à ladite organisation et au maintien de l ' - ordre . 
FRENCH Le succès de l ' - Euro 2000 a démontré que les petits pays sont eux aussi capables de hauts faits . La réussite de l ' - Euro 2000 ne peut pas être ternie par l ' - attitude destructrice d ' - une minorité . 
FRENCH Tous les États membres doivent s ' - entendre en vue de prendre les mesures appropriées . 
FRENCH L ' - Euro 2000 n ' - était pas seulement une fête grandiose à la gloire du football , c ' - était aussi une fête de fraternisation et de solidarité entre les citoyens de l ' - Union européenne . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , le groupe libéral a voté lundi contre l ' inscription de ce point à l ' - ordre du jour et , à présent que j ' - examine la résolution , je pense que nous avons eu raison de le faire . 
FRENCH Il est bien entendu charmant de distribuer des félicitations dans une résolution mais il me semble que ce n ' - est guère la tâche de ce Parlement . 
FRENCH Le thème du hooliganisme ne peut être qualifié d ' - urgent car il existe depuis des années - ; il est certes important de l ' - aborder au sein de ce Parlement mais il ne peut être question d ' - urgence . 
FRENCH Vient ensuite la question de savoir ce qui s ' - est passé à Rotterdam . 
FRENCH Une enquête est évidemment indispensable parce que les accusations sont très graves . 
FRENCH Si une équipe de télévision a été enfermée toute une nuit , la chose doit être examinée sérieusement et il faut qu ' - il y ait eu de très bonnes raisons . 
FRENCH Cette enquête est en cours . 
FRENCH Le ministère public des Pays - Bas s ' - y attache et il est donc absolument prématuré de rendre un jugement en la matière au sein de ce Parlement . Je pense que nous en sommes encore loin . 
FRENCH En ce qui me concerne , il est tout à fait exclu de porter un jugement politique à un moment où un ministère public se penche sur l ' - affaire . 
FRENCH Je pense également que les amendements relatifs à cette affaire doivent être rejetés . 
FRENCH Nous pouvons bien entendu revenir sur le sujet s ' - il apparaît que quelque chose s ' - apparentant à une violation des droits de l ' - homme s ' - est effectivement produit , mais ce serait réellement trop s ' - avancer que de rendre pareil jugement à l ' - heure actuelle . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , je voudrais tout d ' abord me tourner vers notre collègue , M. - Heaton - Harris qui , il y a maintenant environ un mois , avait cru devoir interdire la manifestation sportive à Charleroi - : il y aurait là , prétendait - il , un terrible dérapage . 
FRENCH Ensuite , je crois qu ' il faut s ' intéresser au fond du dossier - : je crois effectivement que , si nous pouvions avoir , comme la résolution l ' indique , une plus grande coopération entre les différents États membres lorsqu ' une manifestation telle que celle - là se tient , il y aurait une avancée . 
FRENCH Si , demain , nous pouvions obtenir que les hooligans récidivistes ne puissent pas assister à d ' autres épreuves et si , enfin , comme M. Fode Sylla l ' a indiqué tout à l ' heure , nous avions la possibilité d ' avoir un suivi sur un sujet tel que celui - là afin d ' ouvrir une autre pédagogie sur le comportement dans les stades , ce serait le sport qui l ' emporterait et non pas l ' inquiétude politique . 
FRENCH Je termine , Monsieur le Président , en espérant avoir tenu un propos et un rythme de propos tel que vous l ' aviez demandé , c ' - est - à - dire à taille humaine . 
FRENCH Irak 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , les Nations unies ont été émasculées par deux membres du Conseil de sécurité sur la question des sanctions à l ' encontre de l ' Irak . 
FRENCH Kofi Annan est un homme bon et honorable . 
FRENCH Il devrait pourtant démissionner étant donné que le monde est totalement opposé à la sévérité disproportionnée de ces sanctions . 
FRENCH L ' UE doit s ' exprimer contre ces sanctions qui équivalent à un génocide virtuel . 
FRENCH Il est toujours là dix ans plus tard . 
FRENCH En fait , l ' objectif réel est de contrôler le pétrole et de fournir un terrain d ' entraînement aux pilotes américains et britanniques pour qu ' ils puissent assurer la survie des complexes militaro - industriels des États - Unis et de Grande - Bretagne . 
FRENCH Lors de ma récente visite en Irak , j ' ai vu des enfants mourir d ' infections respiratoires , de diarrhée , de leucémie , de gastro - entérite et de malnutrition . 
FRENCH Nous ne devons pas oublier que ce pays a la deuxième plus grande réserve de pétrole au monde . 
FRENCH Les salles d ' opération ont des fuites d ' eaux d ' égout et un équipement dépassé . 
FRENCH Nous assistons petit à petit à l ' étranglement d ' une nation magnifique et d ' un peuple merveilleux . 
FRENCH Je suis un ami de l ' Islam et je pense que nous devrions arrêter , au sein l ' Union européenne et le Parlement européen , de diaboliser les Arabes et l ' Islam . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , nous avions d ' - abord déposé un texte traitant de la même affaire et ayant une portée identique , mais ce texte est beaucoup plus nuancé que celui de la résolution qualifiée de commune . 
FRENCH J ' - aurais préféré discuter d ' - un texte qui comporte davantage de nuances . 
FRENCH Comment se fait - il que , ce texte ne paraissant pas , nous n ' - ayons toutefois pas retiré notre signature - ? 
FRENCH Nous estimons que le texte déposé à l ' - origine aurait fourni une base sensiblement meilleure pour le débat . 
FRENCH Madame Maes , peut - être ne nous comprenons - nous pas bien , mais si vous avez réitéré votre signature de la résolution commune , ou si vous ne l ' - avez pas signée , le texte reste en vigueur et sera soumis au vote conformément aux règles établies . 
FRENCH Le texte a - t - il été distribué - ? 
FRENCH Est - il disponible , parce que je constate que nombre de collèges n ' - ont pas vu le texte en question - ? 
FRENCH Oui , bien sûr . 
FRENCH Nous ne savions pas qu ' - il existait un problème de distribution , mais si vous le dites , nous vérifierons et distribuerons le texte . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , l ' Irak était en guerre avec l ' Iran de 1980 à 1989 . 
FRENCH Pendant cette période , les États - Unis et l ' UE ont soutenu l ' Irak parce que nous percevions l ' Iran comme la véritable menace pour le Moyen - Orient . 
FRENCH L ' Irak a envahi le Koweït le 2 août 1990 . 
FRENCH C ' était mal et inacceptable . 
FRENCH L ' action de l ' ONU était justifiée . 
FRENCH En 1994, l ' Irak a reconnu l ' intégrité territoriale du Koweït . 
FRENCH De 1991 à 1997, des inspecteurs de l ' ONU - - de l ' UNSCOM - - ont inspecté , détruit et contrôlé la capacité de l ' Irak à produire des armes de destruction massive de façon systématique et complète . 
FRENCH En 1998, l ' Agence internationale de l ' énergie atomique a déclaré que l ' Irak n ' avait plus de capacité nucléaire . 
FRENCH Le programme pétrole contre nourriture lancé en 1996 s ' est avéré excessivement bureaucratique et incompétent et s ' est traduit par d ' importants retards dans l ' approvisionnement en médicaments essentiels et en nourriture . 
FRENCH Des 28 milliards de dollars issus des revenus du pétrole sur trois ans , seuls 7 milliards ont été utilisés pour les importations , tandis que 12 milliards sont toujours bloqués dans une banque de New York . 
FRENCH Si les sanctions avaient pour but de détruire la capacité militaire de l ' Irak , alors elles ont atteint leur objectif . 
FRENCH Si elles visaient à déloger Saddam Hussein , elles n ' y sont toujours pas parvenues après dix ans . 
FRENCH Les dix années de sanctions ont toutefois engendré d ' énormes souffrances et une grande pauvreté parmi les 22 millions d ' Irakiens . 
FRENCH Une mortalité infantile élevée , la diminution de l ' espérance de vie , une augmentation des cas de cancer et de maladies pouvant être soignées continuent de ravager le tissu social d ' un pays qui a un jour connu un niveau de vie élevé . 
FRENCH L ' embargo intellectuel a privé les docteurs , les enseignants et autres professionnels des progrès scientifiques et technologiques . 
FRENCH Je pense que l ' Union européenne doit revoir sa position en venant en aide à ceux qui souffrent d ' une pauvreté aiguë . 
FRENCH Ces diplomates partagent l ' opinion du bureau de l ' ONU en Irak , de l ' OMS , de la Croix - Rouge et d ' autres ONG que l ' UE peut , grâce à sa diplomatie , parvenir à une percée . 
FRENCH Nos députés et membres de la Commission devraient aller enquêter en Irak afin de rencontrer les députés du parlement irakien , les diplomates de l ' UE , les agences internationales et les ONG . 
FRENCH Un tel dialogue permettra d ' établir les faits tels qu ' ils se présentent aujourd ' hui et d ' aider à déterminer comment sortir de cette impasse de manière à ce que les sanctions soient levées pour les fournisseurs non militaires . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , je suis convaincue de ce que tous les embargos , sauf celui sur les armes , sont contraires aux droits de l ' homme et inopérants contre les régimes autoritaires . 
FRENCH Le voyage que j ' ai fait en Irak a rendu encore plus inacceptable à mes yeux le fait qu ' au nom de la défense de la démocratie et des droits de la population irakienne , opprimée par Saddam Hussein , on tue un peuple et on détruise un pays . 
FRENCH Ce sont les mots du responsable du Programme alimentaire mondial . 
FRENCH Nous avons vu dans les hôpitaux des enfants assistés de leurs mères qui nous regardent avec des yeux écarquillés et nous hantent la nuit et des médecins impuissants face à leur agonie . 
FRENCH Le programme Oil for Food prévoit que toute marchandise importée doit passer à l ' examen du comité des exemptions . Des contrats portant sur des millions de dollars sont bloqués depuis des années dans la crainte du double emploi - : les médicaments , pièces de rechange , matériel sanitaire et autres crayons au graphite ne peuvent pas passer . 
FRENCH Il n ' y a pas de vols vers Bagdad et ce , non en raison de résolutions de l ' ONU , mais parce que les États - Unis et la Grande - Bretagne ont imposé une zone d ' interdiction de vol . 
FRENCH Je voudrais que l ' Europe passe à l ' action et suspende unilatéralement l ' embargo , sauf celui sur les armes , et reprenne les vols civils . 
FRENCH Pour la démocratie en Irak , redonnons confiance au peuple irakien - ! 
FRENCH Rabye , une jeune opposante , me disait , alors que les bombes tombaient sur son pays - : " Vous êtes en train de tuer jusqu ' à notre rêve de construire nous - mêmes notre démocratie " . 
FRENCH Nous pouvons également prendre en considération les paroles de Mary Robinson , qui a vivement condamné la situation qu ' engendrent les sanctions . 
FRENCH Le fait est que des victimes , des personnes innocentes , des femmes et des enfants , des personnes sans aucun pouvoir , sans aucun type de contrôle quel qu ' il soit , sont persécutés . 
FRENCH Il y a une guerre silencieuse permanente contre le peuple irakien auquel peu d ' intérêt a été accordé , et je suis content de voir que certaines personnes de ce Parlement ont en fait visité l ' Irak pour se rendre compte de la situation par eux - mêmes . 
FRENCH C ' est extrêmement important . 
FRENCH L ' infrastructure irakienne a été complètement décimée . 
FRENCH Une fois de plus , les victimes sont des personnes innocentes qui n ' ont aucun pouvoir . 
FRENCH Je voudrais également féliciter ici certaines organisations de nos communautés qui font quelque chose ou essaient de nous sensibiliser au problème , et je voudrais mentionner ici ces voix dans le désert qui cherchent à briser les sanctions - - je pense qu ' ils jouent un rôle essentiel et je voudrais leur affirmer mon soutien . 
FRENCH Nous devons également considérer le fait que , quelles que soit les mesures prises à l ' encontre de l ' Irak à l ' avenir , nous devons nous concentrer sur l ' amélioration des droits de l ' homme et envisager la protection des Kurdes dans le nord et des Chi ' ites dans le sud en vue de leur garantir une certaine autonomie . 
FRENCH Nous ne devons pas non plus les perdre de vue . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , le 15 avril dernier , après un débat approfondi avec le Conseil et la Commission , nous avons voté une résolution qui a pu être soutenue par une majorité écrasante de cette Assemblée . 
FRENCH Nous avons exigé que l ' embargo soit également levé pour ce qui concerne les aliments et les médicaments , car cet embargo ne touche pas Saddam Hussein , mais bien la population irakienne . 
FRENCH Au début de cette résolution , nous avons déjà confirmé et souligné l ' obligation qu ' avait le gouvernement irakien d ' accepter et de favoriser le contrôle des Nations unies en ce qui concerne la destruction des armes NBC et de contribuer à clarifier le sort des personnes disparues au Koweït . 
FRENCH Le débat d ' aujourd ' hui et la proposition déposée doivent nous permettre d ' atteindre trois objectifs supplémentaires . 
FRENCH Premièrement , nous voulons compléter l ' appel lancé au Conseil et à la Commission par une exigence comparable à l ' attention du Conseil de sécurité de l ' ONU . 
FRENCH Deuxièmement , nous voulons proposer que notre Parlement prenne des initiatives et qu ' il entreprenne une mission d ' établissement des faits sur place . 
FRENCH Troisièmement , nous voulons appuyer le fait que l ' ONU , l ' OMS et la Croix - Rouge veillent à ce que les pauvres et les faibles d ' Irak puissent profiter du programme en cours " Pétrole contre nourriture " . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , tout comme M. Andrews , je m ' adresse à vous cet après - midi en tant qu ' ami du monde arabe et islamique . 
FRENCH Cette résolution ne peut être soutenue que si le considérant A et le paragraphe 1 sont considérés comme le noyau dur de cette résolution . 
FRENCH Nous y déclarons que tout assouplissement des sanctions doit dépendre du respect par l ' Irak des résolutions des Nations unies . 
FRENCH Nous devons notamment demander à l ' Irak de coopérer avec le Comité international de la Croix - Rouge sur la localisation de 604 Koweïtiens qui ont disparu à la suite de l ' occupation illégale du Koweït par l ' Irak . 
FRENCH Une position plus faible de la part de l ' UE n ' aidera pas les Irakiens , mais les condamnera à une tyrannie à perpétuité . 
FRENCH Cette ratonnade augure fort mal de l ' avenir . 
FRENCH Ce nouvel ordre mondial , expression de M. Bush pour masquer les intérêts des multinationales et en l ' occurrence des grands pétroliers américains , est pour nous de plus en plus intolérable . 
FRENCH À cet égard , on s ' étonne du silence des milieux humanitaires devant la situation des Irakiens qui souffrent et , pour plus d ' un million d ' entre eux déjà , qui meurent de notre fait . 
FRENCH C ' est infiniment dangereux et inquiétant pour le siècle qui s ' ouvre . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , qui pourrait rester insensible aux malheurs de la population irakienne durement éprouvée - ? 
FRENCH Le résultat politique de leur intention est cependant une chance avortée . 
FRENCH Je vais être concret . 
FRENCH De façon tout à fait contradictoire avec ce que laissent entendre les considérants B et C , Saddam Hussein a sabordé la personnification contemporaine de Nabuchodonosor , dont il admire tant l ' - ancienne civilisation . 
FRENCH Actuellement , le gouvernement irakien peut exporter du pétrole sans se voir imposer de quotas s ' - il s ' - agit d ' - acquérir des biens humanitaires . 
FRENCH Bref , qu ' - est - ce qui empêche Saddam de soulager la misère de ses concitoyens - ? 
FRENCH Qu ' - adviendra - t - il par ailleurs des 13 - % réservés pour les Kurdes si les sanctions sont levées de façon inattendue - ? 
FRENCH Je trouve bizarre l ' - utilisation du terme " embargo intellectuel " dans le considérant D. Voilà en effet plusieurs décennies que l ' - intelligentsia irakienne subit l ' - embargo intellectuel du parti Baas de Saddam . 
FRENCH En réalité , le tyran du Tigre s ' - intéresse uniquement à un certain type de scientifique - : le concepteur d ' - armes de destruction de masse . 
FRENCH Ceux - ci ne connaissent en effet que trop bien la valeur des promesses de Saddam . 
FRENCH Ceux qui ont déposé la résolution ne peuvent viser pareil cauchemar . 
FRENCH Voilà pourquoi j ' - ai décidé de voter contre . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , permettez - moi de dire que je suis choqué et horrifié par la réponse de la Commission sur la question de l ' Irak et par la façon dédaigneuse dont elle traite ce problème . 
FRENCH Permettez - moi juste de citer à l ' attention du commissaire et de la Commission les paroles d ' Oscar Wilde disant que dans les relations que nous entretenons avec la vie , le destin ne referme jamais son livre . 
FRENCH L ' Irak mérite mieux que la réponse de la Commission . 
FRENCH Je suis absolument horrifié . 
FRENCH Je voudrais exprimer mon profond mécontentement vis - à - vis de la réponse de la Commission . 
FRENCH C ' est tout . 
FRENCH Si vous voulez être impartial , Monsieur le Président , permettez - moi d ' exprimer ma totale satisfaction vis - à - vis de la réponse de la Commission . 
FRENCH Parfait , il y a eu une intervention pour et une intervention contre . 
FRENCH Nous remercions le commissaire de ne pas vouloir intervenir . 
FRENCH Le débat est clos . 
FRENCH Le vote aura lieu à 17h30 . 
FRENCH Venezuela 
FRENCH L ' - ordre du jour appelle en discussion commune les propositions de résolution suivantes - : 
FRENCH - - - - - B5 - 0615 / 2000 des députés Di Pietro y Sánchez García , au nom du groupe ELDR , sur le Venezuela - ; 
FRENCH - - - - - B5 - 0627 / 2000 des députés Salafranca Sánchez - Neyra et autres , au nom du groupe PPE - DE , sur la reconstruction et la réhabilitation des régions frappées par les inondations catastrophiques au Venezuela , en décembre 1999 - ; 
FRENCH - - - - - B5 - 0634 / 2000 des députés Wurtz et autres , au nom du groupe GUE / NGL , sur le Venezuela - ; 
FRENCH - - - - - B5 - 0642 / 2000 des députés Frassoni et Knörr Borràs , au nom du groupe Verts / ALE , sur la reconstruction des régions sinistrées en décembre 1999 par les inondations au Venezuela - ; 
FRENCH - - - - - B5 - 0652 / 2000 des députés Linkohr et Menéndez del Valle , au nom du groupe PSE , sur la reconstruction des régions frappées en décembre 1999 par les inondations au Venezuela - ; 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , chers collègues , nous avons aujourd ' - hui la possibilité de montrer notre solidarité envers le peuple vénézuélien , qui a subi en décembre passé les affres d ' - une catastrophe naturelle qui a frappé le littoral des États de Vargas et Miranda et qui a entraîné la mort de 50 - 000 personnes . 
FRENCH En conséquence , nous insistons sur l ' - importance de l ' approbation de cette résolution qui , en définitive , est la conséquence logique du rapport de la commission spéciale qui s ' - est rendue au Venezuela pour se rendre compte sur le terrain du désastre naturel , et le reflet de la cohérence des engagements politiques de l ' - Union européenne . 
FRENCH Grâce à cela , j ' - espère qu ' - il sera possible de financer de manière significative le programme de reconstruction des régions sinistrées et qu ' - il sera élaboré conformément aux schémas de ce type d ' - action . 
FRENCH Il conviendrait également de prendre en considération , à des fins de coordination , les programmes d ' - aides financières des États membres et des régions communautaires . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , comme vient de le rappeler M. - Sánchez García , cette résolution s ' - inscrit dans le cadre de la décision prise par la Conférence des présidents d ' - envoyer une mission ad hoc au Venezuela pour évaluer les conséquences tragiques des inondations du mois de décembre dans ce pays . 
FRENCH Ce dossier du Venezuela est grave et urgent . 
FRENCH Grave car on calcule que -- les pertes n ' - ont pas encore été suffisamment quantifiées -- cette tragédie a causé la mort de plus de 30 - 000 personnes . 
FRENCH Je profite de la présence de la Commission pour demander au commissaire comment la Commission a accompli le mandat que le Parlement lui a confiée dans le cadre de la résolution approuvée en janvier visant à évaluer la réponse communautaire à la tragédie survenue au Venezuela . 
FRENCH J ' - espère que la Commission sera capable de mobiliser les ressources humaines nécessaires pour traiter les priorités signalées par le Parlement et je suis convaincu que si la Commission , comme elle l ' - a proposé dans son avant - projet budgétaire pour 2001, peut dépenser 815 millions d ' - euros dans les Balkans , elle pourra également dépenser au moins 50 millions d ' - euros au Venezuela . 
FRENCH Cette affaire , Monsieur le Président , pose un problème qui va au - delà de la résolution sur le Venezuela . 
FRENCH Je veux parler du maintien de la capacité de réponse du Parlement à ce type de situations . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , il faut savoir très clairement ce que nous voulons - : voulons - nous un véritable Parlement ou un Parlement en carton - pâte - ? 
FRENCH Voulons - nous un Parlement assumant pleinement ses responsabilités ou un Parlement voué à avaliser les priorités des autres institutions - ? 
FRENCH Voulons - nous un Parlement prenant ses responsabilités ou un Parlement qui se borne à signer le chèque des engagements pris par d ' - autres institutions - ? 
FRENCH Tel est le débat du budget 2001 et tel était le débat du budget 2000 . 
FRENCH Ce que je veux tout simplement dire , Monsieur le Président , c ' - est qu ' - avec de la volonté on peut toujours trouver une solution et que cette résolution suppose l ' - engagement décidé de ce Parlement de manifester sa volonté d ' - aider et de faire preuve de solidarité , la solidarité de l ' - Union européenne , avec la société et le peuple du Venezuela . 
FRENCH Je suis convaincu , Monsieur le Président , qu ' - en nous investissant de cette volonté nous serons capables de trouver dans un budget , doté de 100 milliards d ' - euros cette année et qui sera similaire l ' - année prochaine , une voie permettant de subvenir aux besoins des victimes de cette tragédie . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , les trois points que la gauche unitaire européenne / gauche verte nordique veut soulever sur l ' - aide que l ' - Union européenne peut et doit accorder au Venezuela à la suite de la terrible catastrophe engendrée par les inondations sont - : premièrement , notre implication économique et technique dans la résolution des conséquences engendrées et ne pas diminuer cette aide , comme la Commission en a l ' intention , pour assumer le financement d ' - une autre catastrophe , cette fois artificielle , provoquée par nous au Kosovo et en Yougoslavie , dans les Balkans . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , au sujet de cette résolution qui parle de solidarité envers le peuple vénézuélien , je voudrais dire que nous sommes tout à fait d ' - accord avec certaines idées . 
FRENCH Surtout -- comme l ' - a signalé M. Salafranca - , il faut que l ' - efficacité des mesures d ' - aide ne fasse pas les frais d ' - un manque d ' - effectifs humains . 
FRENCH Deuxièmement , parce qu ' elle dénonce le refus d ' un point si élémentaire pour notre groupe qu ' - est l ' - incorporation des populations touchées au moment de l ' élaboration et de l ' application des mesures d ' - aide , pour ne pas faire des choses inutiles et non désirées . 
FRENCH Enfin , last but not least , il faut réfléchir sur notre manière de produire et sur notre manière de consommer les ressources naturelles , car c ' - est ce qui à l ' origine des catastrophes , pour que nous ne devions pas les regretter de manière récurrente . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , la grande sensibilité de l ' Assemblée à l ' égard de la région latino - américaine ne nous empêche pas de soutenir également les efforts de la Commission vis - à - vis de l ' - Europe centrale et orientale et de la reconstruction des Balkans . 
FRENCH Ce qui nous inquiète actuellement , c ' est l ' - abandon de cette région que nous avons commencé à percevoir l ' - année dernière avec la nouvelle Commission . 
FRENCH C ' - est comme si tout à coup l ' - Amérique latine avait disparu de la carte des préoccupations de la Commission . 
FRENCH En tout cas , nous avons vécu une bonne expérience avec la contribution que l ' - Union européenne a apportée à la région d ' - Amérique centrale après la catastrophe de Mitch , nous observons aussi une bonne réaction initiale de la Commission , qui s ' - est empressée de débloquer 400 - 000 euros pour l ' - aide d ' - urgence humanitaire au Venezuela lorsque la catastrophe que les orateurs précédents ont mentionnée s ' - est produite . 
FRENCH Actuellement , nous savons que la Commission a la possibilité , les moyens , les ressources d ' - apporter une aide plus importante . 
FRENCH Ce type de catastrophes se produit malheureusement assez fréquemment et j ' - ai l ' - impression que l ' - Amérique latine met bien à profit les aides communautaires . 
FRENCH Nous disposons d ' - instruments , de moyens , de bonnes représentations et , par ailleurs , d ' - une présence européenne dans ces zones . 
FRENCH Il faut rappeler , par exemple , que l ' - Union européenne est le principal investisseur étranger au Venezuela et que nous avons tissé de nombreux liens culturels et sociaux avec ces pays . 
FRENCH J ' - espère donc que la Commission envisagera avec la meilleure volonté possible les requêtes du Parlement pour que les ressources disponibles et celles que l ' - on pourrait mobiliser dans un bref délai permette de donner une réponse à ces requêtes et pour que l ' on élabore un plan ne se limitant pas à l ' - aide humanitaire essentielle , mais qui aide ce pays , qui fait un grand effort , à se reconstruire dans son propre intérêt et probablement aussi dans notre intérêt , car l ' Europe est probablement le continent qui bénéficie le plus du développement de l ' - Amérique latine . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , plus de six mois se sont déjà écoulés depuis les inondations tragiques survenues au Venezuela . 
FRENCH Il faut le voir pour le croire . Aussi impressionnantes que furent les photographies et les images télévisées diffusées par les médias , elles ne nous donnent qu ' une pâle idée de la véritable dimension du désastre . 
FRENCH Nous avons eu également l ' occasion de constater l ' action de solidarité inestimable des ONG envers les populations touchées par les inondations . 
FRENCH Cette aide humanitaire d ' urgence fournie par les ONG n ' aurait pas existé sans le soutien financier de la Commission . Je félicite donc tous ceux qui ont rendu cette aide possible . 
FRENCH Mais la priorité doit aller à présent à la reconstruction de toute la zone touchée , ainsi qu ' à la stimulation de la relance économique . 
FRENCH Dans le cadre d ' une nouvelle planification du territoire , il faut reconstruire les habitations , toute sorte d ' infrastructures et encourager les petites et moyennes entreprises à recommencer , souvent de zéro , après avoir connu la destruction totale . 
FRENCH Je suis bien conscient que la tâche de la reconstruction est colossale . 
FRENCH C ' est peut - être pour cela qu ' elle tarde . 
FRENCH On a dégagé à peine quelques routes , on a régularisé dans une certaine mesure la fourniture d ' eau et d ' électricité , c ' est tout . Et les personnes touchées par la catastrophe se désespèrent des retards . 
FRENCH Des milliers d ' entre elles dépendent toujours de l ' aide alimentaire pour leur survie . 
FRENCH Il faut absolument recréer les milliers d ' emplois qui ont été perdus avec les pluies . 
FRENCH Le gouvernement vénézuélien a besoin de beaucoup de soutien pour promouvoir ce travail de titan . 
FRENCH En ce qui concerne la tâche de la reconstruction , qui ne peut être remise à plus tard , la Commission doit agir avec la même solidarité qu ' elle a montré à l ' occasion de la fourniture de l ' aide humanitaire d ' urgence ou de la même façon qu ' elle a agi envers les pays touchés par l ' ouragan Mitch . 
FRENCH Nous demandons donc à la Commission un effort financier significatif dans les cinq prochaines années . 
FRENCH En plus d ' un devoir élémentaire de solidarité , les liens historiques qui nous lient au Venezuela et la stabilité de la démocratie dans ce pays l ' exigent . 
FRENCH Je voudrais tout d ' abord souligner que , contrairement aux soupçons exprimés en ce lieu , la Commission reconnaît tout à fait l ' importance politique de l ' Amérique latine et a pris ces derniers temps une série d ' initiatives qui soulignent l ' importance politique tout particulière de l ' Amérique latine pour l ' Europe . 
FRENCH Deuxièmement , je voudrais faire remarquer qu ' en ce qui concerne la catastrophe du Venezuela , il vaut la peine de réfléchir à ses causes et ses conséquences , ainsi qu ' aux responsabilités qui s ' y rapportent . 
FRENCH Dès le départ , l ' Union a apporté une aide importante et continuera sur cette voie à l ' avenir . 
FRENCH Cette aide porte sur deux choses . 
FRENCH Il s ' agit tout d ' abord de l ' aide à la reconstruction dans l ' État fédéré de Vargas . 
FRENCH On peut dès à présent y voir un peu plus clair sur les besoins existants . Ce n ' était pas le cas au début . 
FRENCH Je comprends les manifestations d ' impatience à ce sujet , car certaines choses vont très lentement . 
FRENCH Toutefois , aucune proposition de projet ne nous a été soumise par le gouvernement vénézuélien . 
FRENCH Je ne dis pas cela sur un ton critique . 
FRENCH Il est vraisemblablement difficile pour le gouvernement vénézuélien de décider rapidement quelles sont les priorités à établir . 
FRENCH C ' est la raison pour laquelle nous avons envoyé une commission d ' experts au Venezuela afin de constater par nous - mêmes quelles sont ces priorités . 
FRENCH Le résultat vous est présenté aujourd ' hui . 
FRENCH Dans quelques jours , une communication s ' y rapportant sera adressée au Conseil sur les mesures à soutenir et les fonds nécessaires . 
FRENCH Le deuxième élément -- bien plus important à mes yeux que l ' aide à la reconstruction -- est l ' aide pour la prévention des catastrophes . 
FRENCH Nous voulons en effet faire en sorte que des programmes qui traitent de la gestion des risques naturels dans les États fédérés de Falcon Miranda et de Jarakui soient établis et déposés . 
FRENCH La prévention des catastrophes -- c ' est la leçon que nous avons dû tirer de la catastrophe du Venezuela -- est tout particulièrement susceptible d ' améliorations . 
FRENCH Je pense que nous aiderons d ' autant mieux les gens dans le long terme si nous nous concentrons sur ce point . 
FRENCH En ce qui concerne le financement de ces deux mesures , nous sommes face à une question très difficile , car c ' est déjà un problème pour la Commission de s ' entendre constamment chapitrer par le Conseil et le Parlement sur ce qu ' elle doit faire et qui elle doit aider sans que personne ne lui précise malheureusement où elle doit prendre l ' argent pour toutes ces missions . 
FRENCH Comme vous le savez , nous ne pouvons pas l ' imprimer nous - mêmes . 
FRENCH Nous trouverons un moyen de financer ces projets , nous ferons des propositions réalistes à ce sujet , des propositions qui tiendront d ' ailleurs compte des ressources récoltées par ce pays à la suite de l ' augmentation sensible de ses recettes grâce à l ' exportation de pétrole . 
FRENCH Merci beaucoup , Monsieur le Commissaire . 
FRENCH La discussion commune est close . 
FRENCH Le vote aura lieu à 17h30 . 
FRENCH Observatoire européen contre le racisme et la xénophobie 
FRENCH L ' - ordre du jour appelle en discussion commune les propositions de résolution suivantes - : 
FRENCH - - - - - B5 - 0628 / 2000 de M. Van Velzen , au nom du groupe PPE - DE , sur la polémique sur l ' - Observatoire européen du racisme et de la xénophobie - ; 
FRENCH - - - - - B5 - 0635 / 2000 des députés Wurtz et autres , au nom du groupe GUE / NGL , sur la démission de M. Pelinka , représentant autrichien au conseil d ' - administration de l ' - Observatoire européen du racisme et de la xénophobie - ; 
FRENCH - - - - - B5 - 0651 / 2000 des députés M. Ford et autres , au nom du groupe PSE , sur la démission de M. Pelinka , représentant autrichien au conseil d ' - administration de l ' - Observatoire européen du racisme et de la xénophobie - ; 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , je partage l ' opinion de M. Watson , le président de la commission des libertés et des droits des citoyens , de la justice et des affaires intérieures , qui a dit lors d ' une interview que la motion d ' urgence proposée par M. Swoboda n ' était pas la bonne démarche et qu ' il s ' attendait à une manière de procéder un peu plus mûre . 
FRENCH Je partage cette opinion car , pour justifier la motion qu ' il a présentée devant cette Assemblée , M. Swoboda fait référence à de vieux conflits entre le gouvernement autrichien et la directrice de l ' Observatoire européen contre le racisme et la xénophobie . 
FRENCH Lorsqu ' un socialiste autrichien fait pareille chose , c ' est scabreux mais en rien urgent . 
FRENCH Il devrait s ' en réjouir , comme moi et d ' autre personnes le faisons . 
FRENCH Il n ' y a donc pas matière à un débat d ' urgence , encore moins si je cite ce qu ' a dit la directrice de l ' Observatoire européen contre le racisme dans une interview qu ' elle a autorisée . 
FRENCH Elle loue la nouvelle politique de l ' Autriche à l ' égard des étrangers et concède que le gouvernement n ' a pas entrepris une seule initiative à caractère xénophobe , mais qu ' il a au contraire réalisé de nombreux progrès . 
FRENCH Elle ajoute que ces nombreux progrès n ' étaient pas possibles sous l ' ancien gouvernement rouge - noir et précise bien entendu que son travail n ' a en aucun cas été entravé . 
FRENCH Alors , que signifie tout cela , Monsieur Swoboda - ? 
FRENCH En tant que socialiste autrichien , vous semblez uniquement vouloir constituer une plate - forme en vue de polémiquer ici contre l ' Autriche . 
FRENCH C ' est un acte honteux de la part d ' un Autrichien et il convient de le condamner sévèrement - ! 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , je suis désolé pour les traducteurs si j ' ai parlé trop rapidement tout à l ' heure . 
FRENCH Je voudrais vous parler de la démission de M. Pelinka du conseil d ' administration de l ' Observatoire de Vienne . 
FRENCH Je crois que ce qui est arrivé à M. Pelinka , universitaire de renom respecté par la communauté scientifique , est révélateur de la vraie nature de la coalition au pouvoir en Autriche . 
FRENCH Et ce qui s ' est passé dans le cas de M. Pelinka n ' est ni une coïncidence ni un hasard . 
FRENCH On a d ' abord commencé par le calomnier , on l ' a persécuté par l ' intermédiaire d ' un jugement inique , rendu par une justice aux ordres du FPÖ , puisque l ' actuel ministre de la Justice du FPÖ était l ' avocat de Jörg Haider quand celui - ci a poursuivi M. Pelinka pour diffamation . 
FRENCH Ensuite , on a rendu le travail de l ' Observatoire infernal par une campagne publique de pression contre ses membres . 
FRENCH Je crois que Haider exprime -- et il faut le reconnaître -- son mépris vis - à - vis des sanctions que l ' Union européenne lui impose actuellement , car , au moment où la présidence portugaise prend l ' initiative de proposer la nomination de trois sages , c ' est à ce moment - là qu ' il prend la décision de répliquer en exigeant un référendum sur la levée des sanctions , référendum complètement démagogique , populiste et antieuropéen . 
FRENCH Il s ' agit également d ' un défi que Jörg Haider lance à l ' ensemble de la Communauté . 
FRENCH Il nous rappelle que l ' Observatoire est une création de l ' Union européenne et que notre Présidente était à son inauguration il y a trois mois . 
FRENCH C ' est la preuve , pour ceux qui en douteraient encore , qu ' il ne faut pas négocier avec l ' extrême droite , car chaque petite victoire qu ' elle obtient la renforce et la banalise . 
FRENCH Ce n ' est pas parce que l ' Union européenne adoucirait sa position sur l ' Autriche que Haider et ses amis se mettraient miraculeusement à défendre les droits de l ' homme et à renier leur idéologie . 
FRENCH En réponse , nous devons apporter notre total soutien à M. Pelinka. Nous devons également aider l ' Observatoire sur les plans humain , politique et financier et , enfin , les États membres doivent continuer à isoler le gouvernement autrichien et , tout en apportant notre soutien au peuple autrichien , isoler la coalition , qui est inacceptable et inique . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , j ' ai eu l ' honneur de représenter le Parlement européen au sein du comité directeur de l ' Observatoire européen des phénomènes racistes et xénophobes et l ' un des mes collègues était le professeur Anton Pelinka , qui représentait le gouvernement autrichien . 
FRENCH Il a joué un rôle important dans nos délibérations , en conseillant la modération quand d ' autres voulaient aller trop loin et trop vite , en résistant aux stéréotypes faciles et bon marché à l ' encontre de ceux faisant l ' objet de nos enquêtes et en imposant des faits plutôt que l ' imagination . 
FRENCH L ' un dans l ' autre , il s ' est avéré un compagnons frustrant pour ceux d ' entre nous qui voulaient aller plus loin et plus vite . 
FRENCH J ' ai dès lors été choqué de découvrir qu ' une victimisation d ' état s ' est développée contre le professeur Pelinka , tout d ' abord par l ' avocat de Haider , agissant comme juge et partie dans le procès pour diffamation à l ' encontre de M. Haider , que le professeur Pelinka a décrit comme celui qui était responsable d ' avoir rendu les positions et déclarations des nationaux - socialistes politiquement acceptables . 
FRENCH Et deuxièmement , j ' ai été choqué lorsqu ' il a été démis de force de son poste de vice - président du comité directeur de l ' Observatoire européen au travers de tracasseries administratives de la part de sections du gouvernement autrichien actuel . 
FRENCH Cette résolution charge notre commission des libertés publiques , comme l ' a demandé M. Watson lundi , de suivre ces développements de près . 
FRENCH Peut - être ne devrions nous pas être surpris par ce qui est arrivé . 
FRENCH M. Haider a dit en 1992 du professeur Pelinka , après que ce dernier a souligné le passé nazi de Hans Steinecker , un précurseur du parti de la liberté - : " C ' en est fini des falsificateurs de l ' histoire et de ceux qui insultent l ' Autriche . 
FRENCH M. Pelinka a une relation perturbée avec la Carinthie et sa façon de propager en permanence des mensonges est inacceptable " . 
FRENCH En mars de cette année , le parti de la liberté a déclaré - : " Les journaux avaient une fois de plus raison . 
FRENCH Maintenant , il ( Haider ) nous menace " . 
FRENCH Mais il ne menace personne . 
FRENCH Si je nourris un chien et qu ' il me mord , je ne le nourris plus de peur qu ' il ne me morde de nouveau . 
FRENCH Les sages ont une lourde tâche devant eux au cours des six mois à venir . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , je ne voudrais pas m ' engager dans une polémique facile , en particulier celle de mon collègue Pirker , mais plutôt tenir une discussion d ' un certain niveau et m ' en tenir aux faits . 
FRENCH Le fait est que l ' Observatoire contre le racisme et la xénophobie a bel et bien connu , au cours des premières semaines , des difficultés qui étaient politiquement motivées et que mon collègue Pirker a insulté de la manière la plus grossière la directrice de l ' Observatoire , qu ' il prend aujourd ' hui à témoin pour démontrer comme les choses vont bien . 
FRENCH Le fait est -- et c ' est une chose à laquelle je me suis également tenu lors de ma première intervention , les sieurs parlementaires qui tiennent de si grands discours n ' étaient pas là lundi -- que les choses se sont améliorées , étant donné que Mme Winkler , la directrice de l ' Observatoire , et le nouveau représentant du gouvernement autrichien se sont efforcés de redonner à la situation une dimension plus raisonnable . 
FRENCH Le fait est également que la situation reste précaire et , à l ' instar de Mme Winkler , j ' affirme qu ' il n ' y a malheureusement pas que le gouvernement autrichien qui n ' accorde pas une aide suffisante à l ' Observatoire , mais que d ' autres gouvernements sont également concernés . 
FRENCH Il est donc urgent que tous les gouvernements -- comme je l ' ai proposé -- soient contraints de soutenir l ' Observatoire . 
FRENCH Mais le fait est aussi que , malheureusement , le référendum annoncé en Autriche , contre lequel se sont exprimés il y a quelques jours des représentants du parti populaire européen , mais surtout du parti populaire autrichien qui siègent dans cette Assemblée , pourrait bien une nouvelle fois aggraver de manière dangereuse la situation et le climat que connaît l ' Autriche , car il a éveillé des sentiments anti - européens qui ne facilitent certainement pas la tâche de l ' Observatoire contre le racisme et la xénophobie . 
FRENCH Je voudrais dès lors exprimer mon opinion et demande au gouvernement et à ses représentants de renoncer à ce référendum , afin de ne pas attiser une nouvelle haine , un nouveau climat anti - européen , qui ne peut à vrai dire que déplaire au parti populaire autrichien , lequel a toujours été un parti pro - européen . 
FRENCH Je m ' oppose résolument à une telle atmosphère et j ' espère qu ' il en va de même pour cette Assemblée . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , je vous dirai immédiatement que le groupe ELDR a refusé de signer la résolution commune pour une raison très simple - : nous la trouvons un peu trop passionnée , elle n ' a pas la rigueur nécessaire , et n ' offre pas la possibilité d ' un choix plus politique et plus équilibré au nom du Parlement . 
FRENCH C ' est parce que cette résolution est trop faible que nous ne la voterons pas . 
FRENCH Permettez - moi une remarque à l ' intention du groupe GUE et du groupe PSE . 
FRENCH Je ne comprends pas leur accord sur le texte tel qu ' il est déposé , par rapport au texte initial qu ' ils avaient eux - mêmes introduit . 
FRENCH Dès lors , nous souhaitons , au sein du groupe libéral , et c ' est le souhait de M. Watson , que sa commission puisse se saisir effectivement du dossier et que nous sachions de manière extrêmement claire si le gouvernement autrichien a enfreint l ' article 10 du traité , c ' est - à - dire qu ' il n ' a pas rempli ses obligations à l ' égard de l ' Observatoire . 
FRENCH S ' il n ' a pas rempli ses obligations , il appartient au Parlement d ' agir en conséquence vis - à - vis de la Commission et vis - à - vis du Conseil . 
FRENCH Le tout est de le savoir et aujourd ' hui nous ne le savons pas . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , mon groupe soutient également la proposition du président de la commission des libertés et des droits des citoyens , de la justice et des affaires intérieures , visant à traiter minutieusement toute cette affaire au sein de cette commission . 
FRENCH Nous approuvons néanmoins cette résolution , car elle représente , contrairement aux premiers projets , une réaction extrêmement modérée et responsable aux propos de la directrice de l ' - Observatoire devant la commission des affaires intérieures . 
FRENCH Cette décision a également été débattue et décidée conjointement avec le PPE . 
FRENCH L ' - incapacité des députés du parti populaire autrichien d ' approuver cette décision , qui ne constitue qu ' - une première préoccupation et une première requête au gouvernement autrichien , m ' - étonne donc particulièrement . Ils nous donnent un avant - goût de la façon d ' - agir du gouvernement fédéral autrichien avec les critiques gouvernementaux . 
FRENCH M. Pirker donne ici lecture des déclarations de la directrice de l ' - Observatoire et tait les propos bouleversants qu ' - elle a tenu en commission , où elle a été très vertement attaquée par ledit M. Pirker , sur les diffamations de l ' - Observatoire au sein du parlement autrichien , les déclarations sur les chicanes systématiques , sur l ' absence de règlements de sécurité , sur le manque de soutien . 
FRENCH Je déplore que les députés de l ' ÖVP nous laissent ici également entrevoir comment ils traitent les critiques gouvernementaux dans leur propre pays , où l ' - on essaie précisément de les présenter comme des traîtres à leur pays . 
FRENCH Lorsque l ' - on a entendu les déclarations de M. Pirker , qui s ' - adressent à ceux qui critiquent l ' - Autriche , on se rend compte qu ' - il s ' - agit véritablement d ' - une tentative affreuse visant à générer un conflit entre la défense des droits de l ' - homme et le patriotisme . 
FRENCH Ce sont là de scandaleuses convictions - ! 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , chers collègues , nous débattons d ' - une proposition de résolution qui manque de substance . 
FRENCH Nous ne savons pas où se situent précisément les éléments de protestation , c ' - est - à - dire que nous discutons d ' - un sujet que nous ne connaissons pas exactement . 
FRENCH Qui a réellement pris connaissance de la lettre de démission de M. Pelinka - ? 
FRENCH Qui connaît les véritables circonstances de sa démission - ? 
FRENCH Ce que l ' - on sait , en Autriche , à propos de la démission de M. Pelinka , c ' - est que diverses versions circulent à ce sujet , de différents côtés . 
FRENCH Ce que je sais , c ' - est qu ' - une procédure judiciaire est en cours entre M. Pelinka et M. Haider. Ce n ' - est en aucun cas à la politique , ni à un quelconque parlement de critiquer , de surcroît , une procédure en cours devant une juridiction indépendante . 
FRENCH Dans chaque État de droit , il existe des moyens juridiques constitutionnellement prévus . 
FRENCH Une politique qui ne respecte pas l ' - indépendance de la justice ne respecte finalement pas le principe de la séparation des pouvoirs et enfreint de la sorte un principe fondamental essentiel de la démocratie . 
FRENCH Partout où il se présente , il doit être combattu par tous les moyens . 
FRENCH Ce que j ' - attends de la part de l ' - Observatoire , c ' - est un inventaire objectif et une réflexion comparative , qui permettront à la politique de réagir . 
FRENCH Ce que je n ' - attends pas de l ' - Observatoire , c ' - est une immixtion dans des questions de politique courante et l ' - exercice de ce mandat avec des lunettes idéologiques . 
FRENCH Car derrière les notions de racisme et de xénophobie se trouvent des gens et leur sort , qui ne doivent pas servir à un show politique . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , la Commission remercie le professeur Pelinka pour la précieuse contribution qu ' - il a apportée , dans son rôle de membre du conseil d ' - administration pour la fondation de l ' - Observatoire européen contre le racisme et la xénophobie . 
FRENCH C ' - est toutefois une pratique constante de la Commission , de ne pas prendre position concernant des actions en justice impliquant des individus dans les États membres . 
FRENCH Cela vaut particulièrement pour le cas présent , extérieur au domaine d ' - application du droit européen . 
FRENCH De plus , la Commission ne peut pas s ' - exprimer sur les motifs ayant conduit à la démission du professeur Pelinka du conseil d ' - administration de l ' - Observatoire . 
FRENCH Les services de la Commission ont déjà prié les autorités autrichiennes de désigner un nouveau membre au sein du conseil d ' - administration . 
FRENCH La Commission souligne l ' - importance de l ' - indépendance des membres du conseil d ' - administration , telle que celle - ci est stipulée dans le règlement portant création de l ' - Observatoire . 
FRENCH Je ne pense devoir ici certifier , car tout le monde le sait , que la Commission a jusqu ' - à présent toujours soutenu de toutes ses forces l ' - Observatoire de Vienne et qu ' - elle continuera à le faire à l ' - avenir . 
FRENCH Nous sommes intimement persuadés que l ' - Observatoire joue un rôle important dans la lutte contre le racisme , la xénophobie et l ' - antisémitisme . 
FRENCH Je voudrais souligner encore une fois clairement que la Commission attache la plus grande importance à préserver , en toutes circonstances , l ' indépendance et l ' autonomie maximale de l ' - Observatoire dans l ' - accomplissement de ses tâches . 
FRENCH Le débat sur les problèmes d ' actualité , urgents et d ' importance majeure est clos . 
FRENCH Nous passons maintenant au vote . 
FRENCH Avant le vote sur les enfants - soldats en Ouganda - : 
FRENCH Après que le document a été préparé , un sixième groupe s ' - est rallié à cette proposition . 
FRENCH J ' - estime qu ' il est contraire à notre règlement qu ' - un groupe adhère à cette proposition sans demander l ' - avis des autres . 
FRENCH Mon groupe considère cela comme une infraction à notre règlement et je vous prie , Monsieur le Président , d ' - examiner cette affaire . 
FRENCH Nous y avons jeté un coup d ' & # x0153 ; il et pour autant que nous sachions il n ' existe pas de règlement interdisant à quelqu ' un de signer une autre résolution . 
FRENCH La signature peut donc être apposée . 
FRENCH Mais je voudrais suggérer que ce point soit étudié dans le futur . 
FRENCH Avant le vote sur le Venezuela - : 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , il s ' - agit ici du même cas que celui que j ' - ai décrit en commençant . 
FRENCH Je tiens à ce que vous fassiez examiner cette affaire , car durant cette semaine de session , un de nos collègues a voulu se rallier à une proposition de résolution d ' - autres groupes et a dû fournir l ' - accord écrit des autres groupes . 
FRENCH Nous ne pouvons pas appliquer deux procédures différentes au cours de la même semaine . 
FRENCH Je voudrais par conséquent vous demander d ' - examiner l ' - affaire et de nous faire savoir quelle sera l ' - issue de cet examen . 
FRENCH Cela mis à part , nous soutiendrons cette proposition , car nous y avons travaillé . 
FRENCH Je comprends parfaitement ce que vous dites . 
FRENCH Nous étudierons le problème , mais il ne semble pas qu ' il existe de règlement à l ' heure actuelle . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , comme vous le dites , M. Sakellariou , au début de la période de session , nous a gratifiés de quatre demandes de modification de l ' ordre du jour qui ont toutes été rejetées , et maintenant il veut terminer sa période de session avec une autre demande qui est , comme vous l ' avez déjà dit , absolument irrecevable . 
FRENCH On peut continuer ainsi , mais on va perdre du temps . 
FRENCH Le président a déjà répondu . 
FRENCH Il me semble qu ' il a tout à fait raison . 
FRENCH Je ne veux pas de débat supplémentaire . 
FRENCH Nous étudierons ce problème . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , je voudrais seulement intervenir pour manifester l ' - énorme tristesse avec laquelle nous venons d ' - apprendre la nouvelle d ' - un terrible accident survenu sur les routes espagnoles entre un camion et un autocar rempli d ' - écoliers catalans , dont le un bilan provisoire s ' élève à 20 morts et 30 blessés , dont plusieurs dans un état grave . 
FRENCH À la suite aux débats du Conseil hier soir , je me demandais si ce rapport était en fait assez proche de la proposition originale pour permettre la procédure de première lecture . 
FRENCH Il y a de nombreux amendements pour lesquels nous avons besoin de plus de clarification . 
FRENCH Si nous nous prononçons en leur faveur , cela n ' éloignerait - il pas davantage ce rapport de ce que cette Assemblée a le droit de voter - ? 
FRENCH Ma remarque concerne les amendements 4, 5, 6, 18, 21, 33, 36, 40, 42 et 46, dont certains impliquent directement le programme jusque dans les écoles des États membres . 
FRENCH J ' aimerais savoir si cette procédure est légale et nous permet de voter maintenant . 
FRENCH Tous les amendements ont été vérifiés et approuvés par les services , nous allons donc procéder au vote . 
FRENCH ( Le Parlement adopte la résolution législative ) 
FRENCH apport ( A5 - 0180 / 2000 ) de M. Mombaur , au nom de la commission de l ' industrie , du commerce extérieur , de la recherche et de l ' énergie , sur le deuxième rapport de la Commission au Conseil et au Parlement européen sur l ' état de la libéralisation des marchés de l ' énergie ( COM ( 1999 ) 198 -- COM ( 1999 ) 164 -- COM ( 1999 ) 612 -- COM ( 2000 ) 297 -- C5 - 0163 / 2000 -- 2000 / 2097 ( COS ) ) 
FRENCH ( Le Parlement adopte la résolution législative ) 
FRENCH ( Le Parlement adopte la résolution législative ) 
FRENCH ( Le Parlement adopte la résolution législative ) 
FRENCH ( Le Parlement adopte la résolution législative ) 
FRENCH < / P > apport ( A5 - 0181 / 2000 ) de Mme Thors , au nom de la commission des pétitions , sur le rapport d ' activité annuel du médiateur européen pour l ' année 1999 ( C5 - 0303 / 2000 ) 
FRENCH ( Le Parlement adopte la résolution législative ) 
FRENCH < / P > apport ( A5 - 0141 / 2000 ) de M. Atkins , au nom de la commission de la politique régionale , des transports et du tourisme , sur la communication de la Commission au Conseil et au Parlement européen relative à la création du ciel unique européen ( COM ( 1999 ) 614 -- C5 - 0085 / 2000 -- 2000 / 2053 ( COS ) ) 
FRENCH ( Le Parlement adopte la résolution législative ) 
FRENCH apport ( A5 - 0155 / 2000 ) de Mme Damião , au nom de la commission de l ' emploi et des affaires sociales , sur le rapport de la Commission sur la transposition de la directive 92 / 85 / EEC du Conseil du 19 octobre 1992 concernant la mise en & # x0153 ; uvre de mesures visant à promouvoir l ' amélioration de la sécurité et de la santé des travailleuses enceintes , accouchées ou allaitantes au travail . ( COM ( 1999 ) 100 -- C5 - 0158 / 1999 -- 1999 / 2151 ( COS ) ) apporteur - ' Procédure Hughes ' - - : Emilia Franziska Müller , commission des droits de la femme et de l ' égalité des chances . 
FRENCH ( Le Parlement adopte la résolution législative ) 
FRENCH < / P > e Président . 
FRENCH -- ' heure des votes est close . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , j ' - interviens seulement pour préciser l ' - information que j ' - ai transmise à cette Assemblée il y a un instant . 
FRENCH Effectivement , l ' - accident survenu en Espagne est très grave . 
FRENCH Le nombre d ' - enfants décédés s ' - élève à 27 et leurs familles , auxquelles nous voulons transmettre nos condoléances , sont originaires Cerdanyola del Vallés et de Viladecans , dans la province de Barcelone . 
FRENCH Je m ' assurerai que le Président en soit dûment informé et qu ' il en soit ainsi . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , je ne connais pas la gravité des événements , mais s ' il y a des enfants qui sont morts , je proposerais peut - être à l ' Assemblée que nous observions une minute de silence . 
FRENCH Nous devons disposer de plus d ' informations sur l ' ampleur de cette tragédie . 
FRENCH EXPLICATIONS DE VOTE - Rapport Redondo Jiménez ( A5 - 0152 / 2000 ) 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , j ' ai voté en faveur du rapport Redondo qui réglemente l ' intervention de l ' Union européenne en cas d ' incendies et de pollution atmosphérique . 
FRENCH C ' est certainement une disposition positive . 
FRENCH Il serait donc bon , voire opportun , d ' utiliser ces personnes dans la lutte contre les incendies . 
FRENCH Ce rapport prévoit des amendements aux règlements actuels sur la protection des forêts de la Communauté contre la pollution atmosphérique et contre les incendies . 
FRENCH Les amendements concernant le règlement sur la lutte contre les incendies de forêt sont particulièrement importants pour le Portugal . 
FRENCH En effet , il faut accorder toujours plus d ' attention à la forêt méditerranéenne fort touchée par les incendies , ce qui exige donc la mise à disposition de moyens financiers élevés pour procéder au repeuplement et aux nécessaires mesures de prévention contre les incendies . 
FRENCH Pour le Portugal , où les incendies ont détruit d ' importantes zones forestières , il est fondamental d ' augmenter les budgets afin de compléter les investissements nationaux , en incluant la construction d ' infrastructures et l ' acquisition d ' équipements pour les activités à développer dans la prévention des incendies , tant par les autorités que par les associations de propriétaires privés ou les organes de gestion des terrains en friche . 
FRENCH D ' où l ' importance majeure du renforcement des montants communautaires que la rapporteur propose de fixer à 77 millions d ' euros au lieu des 50 millions de la proposition de la Commission . 
FRENCH Il importe également de créer un système communautaire d ' information sur les incendies de forêt permettant une meilleure connaissance de la situation actuelle de manière à rendre possible une lutte plus efficace contre les incendies de forêt et leurs causes . 
FRENCH Je sais que la commission de l ' agriculture nous dit que nous nous trompons de débat en défendant une augmentation du budget dans le cadre de ces rapports . 
FRENCH Pour ma part , j ' estime que nous avons la responsabilité politique d ' envoyer des signaux politiques forts à la Commission , au Conseil et aux citoyens . 
FRENCH En décembre 1999, une partie de l ' Union a été sinistrée par de terribles tempêtes qui ont dévasté une grande partie des forêts du Sud et de l ' Est de la France et suscité le désespoir des sinistrés , en particulier chez les petits propriétaires . 
FRENCH En votant pour les propositions du rapporteur , j ' ai souhaité contribuer à la mise en place d ' une véritable politique forestière de l ' Union . Car malgré le budget colossal de la PAC , la forêt , qui fait partie intégrante de l ' agriculture , reste la grande oubliée . 
FRENCH . -- ( EL ) L ' - importance des forêts , pour le maintien des équilibres écologiques fondamentaux de l ' - écosystème de la vie même , est énorme . 
FRENCH Malheureusement , la protection et l ' - attention qu ' - on leur accorde ne sont pas proportionnées à cette importance . 
FRENCH Les énormes désastres subis par les forêts au cours des dernières années , ainsi que la faiblesse des réactions pour y faire face , mettent gravement en danger tant l ' - équilibre écologique que la santé , la sécurité et nombre de valeurs , culturelles , sociales , indissociablement liées au patrimoine forestier . 
FRENCH Ces dernières années , les massifs forestiers , notamment ceux du bassin méditerranéen , ont gravement été touchés par le déboisement , les incendies , la désertification , l ' - abandon , l ' - exploitation abusive , l ' - insuffisant reboisement , ce qui a abouti à la perte de dizaines de milliers d ' - hectares précieux de superficies boisées . 
FRENCH Je vous exposerai le dramatique problème de la Grèce , qui est le premier pays , dans toute l ' - Europe , en termes de superficie brûlée par incendie . 
FRENCH Pour ce qui est des 90 - % restants , ils sont livrés soit à l ' - abandon , soit , pour leur plus grande part , à la violation et à la construction illicite , au service d ' - intérêts économiques ( par exemple , des entreprises touristiques qui sont , selon la règle , toujours du côté du gouvernement au pouvoir ) qui tirent avantage des incendies - - ou , peut - être , en sont responsables - - , de l ' - insoluble problème de la propriété , de l ' - absence de cadastre forestier et d ' - inventaire du patrimoine forestier de l ' - État , en vue d ' - accroître leur profit . 
FRENCH Il est un fait qu ' - il existe une grande variété des forêts communautaires ( septentrionales , tempérées , méditerranéennes et tropicales ) et , en regard , une grande variété de problèmes et de particularités . 
FRENCH Il n ' a pas suffit que la stratégie forestière , menée par l ' - UE jusqu ' - à aujourd ' - hui , n ' - ait pas réussi à faire face à ces problèmes , en raison de ses politiques fragmentaires , conjoncturelles , inconséquentes et inconstantes , ainsi que des fonds insuffisants dont elle disposait . Voilà qu ' - à présent la Commission propose de réduire encore les fonds déjà minimes , destinés à la protection des forêts contre les incendies et la pollution atmosphérique . 
FRENCH La raison invoquée pour justifier ces réductions proposées est l ' - absorption insuffisante des fonds au cours des dernières années - ! 
FRENCH Les problèmes , cependant , n ' - ont pas été résolus . 
FRENCH Une telle politique n ' - est pas seulement hypocrite . 
FRENCH Elle est complice et incendiaire . 
FRENCH Pour notre part , nous persévérons . 
FRENCH Nous appelons aussi le Parlement européen à se souvenir de ses résolutions réitérées et de ses prises de position en faveur de mesures renforcées de prévention et de lutte contre les incendies , de protection et de mise en valeur du patrimoine forestier dans toutes les régions de l ' - Union . 
FRENCH Nous estimons que les ressources financières communautaires qui ont été affectées à la sauvegarde des forêts étaient et demeurent tout à fait insuffisantes et nous demandons leur augmentation pour qu ' - elles soient à la hauteur des besoins réels et de l ' - importance des forêts . 
FRENCH Il est indispensable , en collaboration avec les autorités nationales et locales , avec les organes compétents , que des initiatives adéquates soient prises pour définir une politique forestière efficace et le développement d ' - une action immédiate et coordonnée , lesquelles permettront la renaissance et le reboisement des zones forestières dévastées , dans le respect des conditions bioclimatiques et écologiques de chaque région et sur la base des données et méthodes scientifiques actuelles . Il s ' - impose , nous le répétons , que l ' - Union européenne et les gouvernements fournissent les fonds indispensables à la création des infrastructures nécessaires et à l ' - embauche d ' - un personnel qui , si nous en jugeons par la Grèce , est totalement insuffisant . 
FRENCH C ' - est ainsi que nous contribuerons à la protection , au développement , à la préservation écologique et à la mise en valeur productive des forêts de ces pays . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , je me suis abstenu lors du vote sur le rapport Arvidsson sur l ' interdiction de l ' utilisation des phtalates . 
FRENCH Je me suis abstenu comme tout le groupe du parti populaire européen , mais mon comportement reflète un doute plus profond , parce que peu avant de venir voter , je me suis posé la question suivante - : vu que nous n ' interdisons pas l ' utilisation d ' une substance , les phtalates , partout , mais seulement dans la fabrication de jouets pour enfants , qu ' arrivera - t - il aux entreprises qui produisent les phtalates - ? 
FRENCH Ces phtalates ne seront - ils pas utilisés à d ' autres fins - ? 
FRENCH Peut - être pour des objets qui peuvent être destinés aux personnes âgées et aux retraités - ? 
FRENCH Ou peut - être à quelqu ' un d ' autre - ? 
FRENCH Cela m ' inquiéterait beaucoup - ! 
FRENCH Je ne poursuivrai pas , Monsieur le Président , parce que nous ne siégeons pas à huis clos et je préfère donc m ' arrêter ici . 
FRENCH . -- ( SV ) L ' explication de vote suivante présentée par le groupe PPE - DE du Parlement s ' applique dans le cas où l ' amendement 6 de l ' article 2 de la directive est adopté . 
FRENCH Les députés du groupe PPE - DE choisissent de s ' abstenir lors du vote sur la résolution législative , puisque l ' amendement 6 de l ' article 2 de la directive a été adopté . 
FRENCH Motif - : L ' étiquetage et la présence d ' un avertissement sur les jouets et articles de puériculture , destinés à des enfants de 3 à 6 ans , entièrement ou partiellement fabriqués en PVC souple contenant des phtalates , ainsi que sur leur emballage est très difficile et risque en réalité de devenir une interdiction étendue indirecte . 
FRENCH La portée de la décision sur l ' étiquetage outrepasse donc la base scientifique de la directive . 
FRENCH . -- Le dossier de la sécurité des jouets me tient particulièrement à c & # x0153 ; ur . 
FRENCH Je fus rapporteur sur ce thème en 1992 et je suis avec la plus grande attention les évolutions législatives en cette matière . 
FRENCH En ce qui concerne les phtalates , ces substances chimiques destinées à assouplir le PVC , j ' - ai toujours milité en faveur de mesures volontaristes en vue de protéger , comme il se doit , ce groupe de consommateurs particulièrement vulnérables que constituent les enfants . 
FRENCH Des expériences sur les animaux ont démontré la toxicité et le caractère cancérigène de certains phtalates . Ces substances peuvent en effet provoquer des affections hépatiques , rénales et testiculaires chez les enfants qui sucent ou mordillent des tétines , hochets ou anneaux de dentition . 
FRENCH Cette énumération de risques a suscité l ' - inquiétude légitime des parents , ce qui aurait dû conduire à l ' - adoption de mesures fermes répondant aux exigences du principe de précaution . 
FRENCH Or , le moins que l ' - on puisse dire est que la réaction de la Commission , si elle fut relativement rapide ( demande d ' - avis au comité scientifique , études de toxicité , d ' - écotoxicité et d ' effet sur l ' - environnement , décision d ' - interdiction d ' - urgence et proposition de modification des directives concernées ) , fut bien frileuse au regard des enjeux et au regard des objectifs de garantie d ' - un niveau élevé de protection des consommateurs et de protection de la santé humaine . 
FRENCH Que nous a proposé la Commission européenne - ? 
FRENCH Elle a proposé d ' interdire les jouets contenant un des 6 phtalates incriminés destinés à être mis en bouche par les enfants de moins de trois ans - ; d ' - apposer un avertissement sur les jouets contenant un des 6 phtalates incriminés susceptibles d ' - être mis en bouche par les enfants de moins de trois ans et de réviser la directive d ' - ici quatre ans . 
FRENCH C ' - est bien entendu totalement insuffisant - ! 
FRENCH Il est ridicule de ne prévoir une interdiction que pour les jouets ou objets de puériculture destinés à être portés à la bouche . 
FRENCH En effet , tous les parents le savent , les enfants en bas âge portent tout à la bouche . 
FRENCH Il faut donc interdire les jouets et objets qui sont susceptibles d ' - être mis en bouche totalement ou partiellement et qui contiennent des phtalates . 
FRENCH En effet , le manque d ' - informations scientifiques fiables sur la migration de ces substances chimiques dans l ' - organisme doit nous conduire à mettre en & # x0153 ; uvre le principe de précaution . 
FRENCH Je tiens également à souligner qu ' - il faudra nous montrer particulièrement vigilants à l ' - égard des substances qui seront utilisées pour remplacer les phtalates . 
FRENCH Par ailleurs , il est indispensable de généraliser l ' - étiquetage des jouets et objets de puériculture contenant des phtalates susceptibles d ' - être mis en bouche . 
FRENCH Il faut prévoir de réviser la directive de façon à l ' - actualiser en fonction des progrès des connaissances scientifiques . 
FRENCH Je suis convaincu que dans l ' - état actuel de nos informations , nous devons faire preuve de la plus grand prudence . 
FRENCH J ' - ai soutenu les amendements déposés par les membres socialistes de la commission de l ' environnement . 
FRENCH Je terminerai en rappelant qu ' - en ce qui concerne le dossier de la sécurité des jouets , les règles en matière de marquage CE sont trop ambiguës et devraient rapidement faire l ' - objet d ' - une clarification . 
FRENCH La nocivité des phtalates pour la santé humaine n ' a pas pu être établie scientifiquement . 
FRENCH Par exemple , selon la recherche effectuée aux États - Unis par l ' U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission , très peu d ' enfants , s ' il y en a , peuvent être soumis au risque de se sensibiliser aux substances chimiques dangereuses , car les quantités de phtalates contenues dans les jouets n ' atteignent pas un niveau qui pourrait être dangereux . 
FRENCH Puisque les quantités de phtalates qui pourraient éventuellement passer des jouets à l ' organisme d ' un enfant sont si minimes , le groupe d ' étude ne recommande pas l ' interdiction des phtalates . 
FRENCH Moi - même , je ne suis pas favorable à l ' excès de précautions , ni à une interdiction trop rigoureuse qui n ' est pas scientifiquement fondée . 
FRENCH Les effets toxiques brusques des phtalates sont minimes , et ils ne provoquent pas d ' irritations des muqueuses ou de la peau . 
FRENCH Bien qu ' on ait constaté dans les années 1980 que de très grandes quantités de phtalates causaient des tumeurs de foie aux rats et aux souris , les milieux officiels en Europe et aux États - Unis n ' ont pas confirmé le caractère cancérigène des phtalates sur les êtres humains . 
FRENCH En outre , je n ' aime pas l ' idée de remplacer les phtalates par des substances pour lesquelles nous ne disposons d ' aucune étude scientifique . 
FRENCH Je suis néanmoins favorable aux études supplémentaires sur les phtalates dont les effets ne sont pas confirmés . 
FRENCH En pratique , le problème est réduit en Europe car l ' industrie européenne des jouets a dans une large mesure déjà renoncé aux phtalates . 
FRENCH Rapport Hieronymi ( A5 - 0186 / 2000 ) 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , j ' ai voté en faveur du rapport MEDIA mais je crois que , puisque ce sont les aînés et les retraités qui regardent le plus la télévision et qui sont donc les premiers concernés par les aides communautaires , il serait bon qu ' ils puissent voir une télévision européenne , des programmes européens diffusés sur une télévision européenne . 
FRENCH Je crois que l ' on parviendrait ainsi à mieux préserver la culture de nos nations qu ' en important uniquement des séries et films tournés dans d ' autres pays , essentiellement aux États - Unis . 
FRENCH L ' - explication écrite du vote , à ce moment , est , pour chacun de nous , une question de respect envers l ' Assemblée . 
FRENCH Nous prenons bonne note de votre observation , Monsieur Mastorakis . 
FRENCH Rapport Sanders - Ten - Holte ( A5 - 0185 / 2000 ) 
FRENCH . -- Nous nous sommes abstenues sur ce projet même si nous sommes bien convaincues qu ' une politique d ' échanges et de coopération entre les différents pays dans le domaine de l ' enseignement contribuerait à en améliorer la qualité , en favorisant le brassage des cultures et les échanges entre les peuples qui vivent en Europe . 
FRENCH Mais une telle orientation ne sera un facteur de progrès que si elle est fondée sur une politique d ' éducation des différents États , visant à donner des moyens accrus à l ' enseignement public , accessible à tous . 
FRENCH Nous nous inquiétons que diverses formulations traduisent une conception limitative et utilitaire d ' une coopération dont les objectifs seraient dictés par les impératifs du marché et les initiatives d ' entreprises ou d ' organismes privés à la recherche d ' une main - d ' & # x0153 ; uvre qu ' ils entendent former et qualifier en fonction de leurs besoins . 
FRENCH Or , introduire les lois du marché dans l ' éducation , c ' est en réserver la qualité à une minorité en la détériorant pour la majorité . 
FRENCH C ' est pourquoi , nous avons voté pour les amendements qui mettent en garde contre un rôle trop important du marché dans l ' éducation . 
FRENCH Ainsi , la coopération au niveau européen sur l ' évaluation de la qualité et sur les indicateurs de qualité ne doit pas servir à produire des modèles d ' évaluation , car il est essentiel de maintenir la diversité des méthodes et des approches , compte tenu des différents contextes nationaux , de la situation historique , sociale , culturelle et politique de chaque pays . 
FRENCH La coopération possible sur la base de l ' échange d ' expériences concernant l ' évaluation de la qualité de l ' enseignement fondamental et secondaire doit donc prendre en considération le fait que l ' on se trouve dans un domaine particulièrement sensible , qui doit respecter intégralement la responsabilité des États membres pour le contenu de l ' enseignement et pour l ' organisation des systèmes d ' éducation et de formation , ainsi que leur diversité culturelle et linguistique . 
FRENCH Rapport Mombaur ( A5 - 0180 / 2000 ) 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , j ' ai voté favorablement parce qu ' un considérant prévoit que la concurrence n ' empêche pas les États d ' imposer , dans l ' intérêt général , des obligations de service public . 
FRENCH La préoccupation exclusive de son auteur est , sous couvert d ' une unification des marchés de l ' énergie en Europe , de livrer l ' ensemble de ce secteur au profit privé . 
FRENCH Ou , plus exactement , en séparant la production de l ' électricité et la gestion du réseau de distribution , l ' auteur veut bien consentir aux États qu ' ils s ' occupent de ce qui demande beaucoup d ' investissements et rapporte peu , à condition qu ' ils laissent au privé ce qui rapporte beaucoup . 
FRENCH L ' unification de la production et de la distribution de l ' énergie à l ' échelle de l ' ensemble de l ' Union européenne , la planification et la rationalisation de l ' une comme de l ' autre , pourraient être un progrès , mais à la condition que l ' ensemble reste un service public exclusivement préoccupé par la satisfaction des besoins , et pas par la maximisation du profit privé . 
FRENCH Si le " processus de libéralisation " qu ' il prône entrait en application , cela représenterait une régression . 
FRENCH Nous avons , en conséquence , voté contre ce rapport . 
FRENCH . -- En tant que nouveau membre de ce Parlement , je suis choqué - ! 
FRENCH Je n ' - ai pas participé à la précédente législature qui a vu la grande braderie de la notion de service public " à la française " . Je parle bien de braderie , à l ' - exemple de ce qui a été fait dans les secteurs des transports , de la poste ou encore des télécommunications . 
FRENCH En se proposant d ' - établir un constat de la transposition des directives de décembre 1996 pour l ' - électricité et de juin 1998 pour le gaz , le rapport Mombaur trahit clairement la philosophie ultralibérale de la Commission qui demande , sous couvert de réalisation du marché intérieur de l ' - énergie au plus grand profit des consommateurs , l ' - ouverture totale de ces marchés à la pleine concurrence . 
FRENCH 
FRENCH Le processus est immuable - : la Commission propose une directive minimaliste en arguant du fait que la libéralisation ne peut être que profitable dans un contexte de déréglementation - ; ensuite , les partisans du " toujours plus d ' - Europe " transposent en allant plus loin ( au début de l ' - année , 65 - % du marché européen était libéralisé alors que la directive en imposait seulement 30 - % - ) ! 
FRENCH et , enfin , la Commission dans un deuxième temps " régularise " de façon beaucoup plus contraignante une situation de fait - ! 
FRENCH Ceci est d ' - autant plus inacceptable que les problèmes demeurent - ! 
FRENCH Pourquoi réaliser un marché unique de l ' - énergie alors que l ' - électricité et le gaz ne sont pas comparables ( en termes de production / distribution , d ' - évolution du marché , de notion de service public ) - ? 
FRENCH Comment demander à un prestataire d ' - assurer une continuité et une équité de service public lorsque ce n ' - est pas rentable économiquement - ? 
FRENCH Parallèlement , comment demander aux anciens monopoles d ' - assumer aujourd ' - hui une complète concurrence quand ils doivent continuer à amortir de lourds investissements , qui sont le produit de choix politiques d ' hier - ? 
FRENCH Comment demander des prix toujours plus bas au nom d ' - une sacro - sainte concurrence sans remettre en cause les exigences actuelles en matière de sécurité nucléaire - ? 
FRENCH Comment peut - on remplacer la notion nationale de service public par la notion communautaire de mission d ' - intérêt général , beaucoup plus - restrictive - ? 
FRENCH Je pourrais continuer comme cela pendant des pages . 
FRENCH Dès lors , nous n ' - avons pu voter en faveur de ce rapport qui exprime la volonté de l ' - omnipotente Commission d ' aller toujours plus loin et toujours plus vite dans la libéralisation . 
FRENCH Certes le libéralisme peut être souhaitable , mais de façon progressive , à dose modérée et sans exclure définitivement l ' - interventionnisme public , sous peine de devoir subir demain les conséquences financières d ' - une telle renonciation - ! 
FRENCH À la suite des conclusions du sommet européen de Lisbonne , des 23 et 24 mars dernier , qui a décidé d ' accélérer la libéralisation dans des secteurs comme le gaz , l ' électricité , les services postaux et les transports , la commissaire européenne de l ' énergie a présenté un ensemble de mesures visant l ' accélération de la libéralisation dans le secteur de l ' électricité , incluant la mise en & # x0153 ; uvre de mécanismes de concertation aptes à dépasser les éventuels goulots d ' étranglement de la libéralisation et à négocier avec les pays tiers l ' accès au marché communautaire . 
FRENCH Comme vous le savez , lors du Conseil européen de Santa Maria da Feira , la Commission a été invitée à présenter un rapport , avant mars 2001, sur l ' évolution des marchés de l ' énergie , dans les termes de la stratégie de Lisbonne , de manière à évaluer les progrès de la libéralisation du marché de l ' électricité lors du Sommet de Stockholm en mars 2001 . 
FRENCH . -- ( EL ) L ' - objectif du rapport en question est de justifier la libéralisation du secteur de l ' - énergie , principalement de l ' - énergie électrique , mais aussi du gaz naturel . 
FRENCH En substance , il enlève à l ' - État ce secteur productif d ' - importance stratégique et livre toute son activité au capital privé , afin que celui - ci multiplie ses gains . 
FRENCH L ' - État est réduit au rôle de régulateur des intérêts monopolistiques et de superviseur des directions dont l ' - UE décide au détriment de l ' - économie du pays et de l ' - intérêt du peuple . 
FRENCH La réflexion qui soutient tout le rapport ne tient nullement compte des intérêts populaires , ceux du simple citoyen , ni même du développement de chaque pays , mais des intérêts des grands monopoles . 
FRENCH Le rapport , dans un effort d ' - embellir la libéralisation du secteur de l ' - énergie , comporte un bon nombre d ' - inexactitudes . 
FRENCH Par exemple , il n ' - est pas vrai qu ' - en Grande - Bretagne , la concurrence ait favorisé la diminution des prix et l ' - augmentation des emplois . 
FRENCH Ailleurs , le rapport lui - même reconnaît la suppression d ' - emplois en conséquence à la libéralisation , mais estime qu ' - il y aura augmentation des emplois dans des branches non productives , bourse , publicité , entreprises de courtage , etc . 
FRENCH D ' - après une étude élaborée au sein de l ' - Entreprise publique d ' - électricité en Grèce , la libéralisation de l ' - énergie électrique fera chuter son personnel de 32.000 à 20.000 personnes , abolissant du même coup un grand nombre de services , utiles autant à l ' - Entreprise publique d ' - électricité qu ' - à l ' - économie du pays , tels que la promotion de nouvelles technologies , les études de centrales , etc . 
FRENCH La privatisation et la libéralisation entraîneront une hausse des prix , particulièrement considérable pour les consommateurs des petites îles de la mer Égée , qui paient actuellement le kilowatt à un prix moins cher que son coût . 
FRENCH Il est tout aussi inadmissible d ' - obliger une entreprise de service public à mettre tout un réseau de transport et de distribution d ' - une valeur énorme à la disposition du secteur privé , au nom de la soi - disant concurrence . 
FRENCH Si l ' - UE souhaitait une concurrence saine , dans le sens qu ' - elle donne elle - même à ce terme , elle devrait plutôt obliger les particuliers à créer leurs propres réseaux et leurs propres unités de production , afin de concurrencer les entreprises de service public , et non pas contraindre ces dernières à " - faire cadeau - " de leur réseau à leurs concurrents . 
FRENCH Exactement pour la même raison , est entreprise la séparation des branches afin que toute entreprise de service public ne puisse pas fonctionner de manière à obtenir le meilleur résultat de ses activités verticales et , pas conséquent , ne soit pas concurrentielles . 
FRENCH L ' - énergie n ' - est pas un simple produit de consommation . 
FRENCH Le secteur de l ' - énergie est particulièrement important pour le développement économique d ' - un pays et vital pour sa défense . 
FRENCH Par conséquent , la libéralisation des marchés énergétiques met en danger , non seulement la sécurité d ' - un pays , mais aussi son développement . 
FRENCH Ce danger apparaît clairement puisque , ainsi qu ' - il est souligné dans le rapport , " - les entreprises de service public doivent opérer sur le marché européen , dans l ' - Europe sans frontières . 
FRENCH Ces entreprises ne sont plus strictement nationales , et les actionnaires non plus - " . 
FRENCH Pour ces raisons , les députés européens du GUE / NGL votent contre le rapport de M. P.M. Mombaur . 
FRENCH Je me réjouis de constater que les efforts déployés en vue de libéraliser le secteur énergétique semblent véritablement porter leurs fruits . 
FRENCH La plupart des pays se sont petit à petit attelés à apporter des modifications structurelles de grande envergure au marché . 
FRENCH Certains pays ont déjà opéré une libéralisation totale et je suis particulièrement ravi de pouvoir déclarer que le Danemark fait partie de ce groupe de tête . 
FRENCH À l ' instar de ce qui s ' est déjà passé en Suède notamment , le Danemark devrait tirer parti de cette position favorable pour achever ce processus de libéralisation . 
FRENCH Je regrette par conséquent l ' absence apparente de plan de la part du gouvernement danois pour franchir la dernière étape vers une libéralisation totale . 
FRENCH L ' excellent rapport de M. Mombaur aborde à juste titre plusieurs points . 
FRENCH Il convient en particulier de souligner l ' importance de prendre dès à présent en considération la situation des pays candidats à une adhésion . 
FRENCH La libéralisation du marché de l ' énergie dans les pays de l ' Est nécessitera des mesures particulières et il faudra porter une attention spéciale à l ' environnement . 
FRENCH Il convient également d ' attirer l ' attention sur la nécessité de rendre toute production d ' électricité transparente et sur le fait que toute aide en faveur de ce secteur ne pourra en aucun cas entraîner une distorsion de concurrence . 
FRENCH Rapport Radwan ( A5 - 0169 / 2000 ) 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , le rapport annuel de la Banque centrale européenne pour 1999 n ' est pas très prolixe sur la grande question que se posent tous les observateurs - : pourquoi l ' euro , qui était annoncé comme une monnaie forte , s ' avère - t - il être finalement une monnaie faible - ? 
FRENCH La Banque consacre une page sur près de deux cents à ce sujet , avec un tout petit graphique , où l ' on trouve seulement le constat de l ' affaiblissement de l ' euro . 
FRENCH Quant aux explications , la seule fournie est la différence de santé économique et de structures entre l ' Europe et les États - Unis . 
FRENCH C ' est vrai , mais c ' est insuffisant . 
FRENCH Il faudrait mentionner , d ' abord , que l ' Europe n ' est pas un pays , avec un peuple , un État , un gouvernement économique , et qu ' en conséquence l ' euro est généralement considéré comme plus fragile qu ' une monnaie nationale . 
FRENCH De plus , il a été lancé à l ' origine à un niveau trop élevé , précisément parce qu ' on l ' a évalué à partir du cours existant de véritables monnaies nationales , alors qu ' il ne possède pas leurs qualités intrinsèques . 
FRENCH Comment les responsables européens veulent - ils lutter contre cette dépréciation - ? 
FRENCH D ' abord , indirectement , au moyen de politiques favorables à la croissance , et nous ne pouvons qu ' approuver cette catégorie d ' actions . 
FRENCH Mais , en même temps , on voit la Banque centrale européenne relever les taux d ' intérêt , officiellement pour lutter contre une inflation... qui n ' existe pas , en réalité pour soutenir la parité de l ' euro . 
FRENCH C ' est une arme à double tranchant , car , utilisée à un mauvais moment du cycle , elle peut casser la croissance , que l ' on s ' efforce de ranimer par ailleurs . 
FRENCH Autre solution douteuse - : la fuite en avant , par le renforcement de l ' euro onze , qui devrait mener progressivement vers un gouvernement économique de l ' Europe . 
FRENCH Cela ne changera pas grand - chose à court terme . 
FRENCH Pour aller au fond du problème , il faudrait enlever toute autonomie aux nations d ' Europe , mais c ' est évidemment impossible . 
FRENCH En tout cas , parallèlement , se met en place un verrouillage du système . 
FRENCH Comme je l ' ai expliqué à un récent colloque de l ' Assemblée nationale française , la charte des droits fondamentaux aura pour fonction , entre autres , de ligoter encore plus les peuples vis - à - vis du droit communautaire et donc aussi vis - à - vis de la monnaie unique . 
FRENCH Cette aventure contribue à nous mener à la perte de nos libertés . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , il ne s ' agit pas d ' explications de vote mais bien d ' une poursuite du débat . 
FRENCH Je ne sais pas encore comment M. Berthu a voté , non pas que cela m ' intéresse , mais il ne s ' agit pas d ' une explication de vote , simplement de la poursuite du débat . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , j ' ai voté en faveur du rapport Radwan bien qu ' au point - 9, qui figure en page - 7, on demande d ' accélérer les réformes structurelles des systèmes de sécurité sociale , par une formulation qui , pour ainsi dire , me laisse perplexe . 
FRENCH Que cache donc si souvent , formulée ainsi , la demande de diminuer les prestations aux citoyens pour réduire les dépenses des gouvernements nationaux - ? 
FRENCH Si telle était l ' intention du rapport , je voudrais dire que l ' on devrait plutôt y voir une rationalisation destinée à éviter les gaspillages dans les paiements des aides qui , si elles été mieux gérées , éviteraient que l ' on doive sans cesse réduire les prestations et donc les pensions versées aux personnes âgées en Europe . 
FRENCH Le rapport à l ' examen fait l ' apologie des politiques monétaristes de la Banque centrale européenne ( BCE ) , en particulier de la stabilité des prix , en oubliant que nous ne vivons pas actuellement un moment de baisse continue des taux , mais , au contraire , une phase de hausses croissantes , avec des répercussions très graves sur les revenus des familles à bas revenus , qui recourent au crédit bancaire pour se loger , comme au Portugal . 
FRENCH Pour le rapporteur , qui se félicite de l ' action de la BCE , ce qui compte c ' est le respect strict des critères de convergence nominale du pacte de stabilité , y compris pour les pays candidats à l ' adhésion , et les politiques qui lui sont associées , en particulier la modération salariale , la flexibilité du marché du travail et des systèmes de sécurité sociale , et l ' accélération de la libéralisation dans les secteurs des services et des capitaux . 
FRENCH De cette manière , le rapporteur se met dans la position de défendre le néolibéralisme capitaliste le plus raffiné , ce qui mérite uniquement une protestation véhémente de notre part , à travers notre vote contraire . 
FRENCH Rapport Karas ( A5 - 0170 / 2000 ) 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , il s ' agit du rapport du Parlement européen sur la stratégie de communication à adopter dans la dernière phase d ' application de l ' union monétaire , rapport contre lequel j ' ai voté , pour que Mme Peijs comprenne bien . 
FRENCH Ce rapport reflète le souci de beaucoup de responsables devant le désintérêt à peu près total du public pour la mise en place de l ' euro . 
FRENCH Pourtant , nous ne sommes qu ' à un an et demi d ' une échéance capitale - : le retrait des monnaies nationales et la mise en circulation physique des pièces et billets libellés en euros . 
FRENCH Jusqu ' à présent , certes , la partie s ' est avérée relativement facile pour l ' euro , puisque la première phase a concerné surtout des techniciens , banquiers , investisseurs et usagers de bourses de valeurs , tous déjà bien avertis et d ' ailleurs dans l ' ensemble convaincus d ' avance . 
FRENCH Dans ces conditions , la facilité de l ' implantation de l ' euro dans cette phase ne surprend pas . 
FRENCH Pour compenser cette lacune , le Parlement européen demande d ' intensifier la politique de communication en augmentant les crédits d ' environ 30 - % , jusqu ' à 38 millions d ' euros par an . 
FRENCH Pour décomplexer les décideurs qui auraient des doutes , il ajoute avec une certaine ingénuité , je cite la résolution votée , que " conformément à l ' article 37, paragraphe a , de l ' accord interinstitutionnel du 6 mai 1999, la politique d ' information constitue une activité autonome ne nécessitant aucune base juridique " . 
FRENCH Dans ces conditions , en effet , pourquoi se priver - ? 
FRENCH Je souligne au passage que nous avons toujours contesté la possibilité pour la Commission d ' engager des dépenses sans base juridique , et nous avons contesté cet accord interinstitutionnel que le Conseil a eu la faiblesse d ' accepter en contradiction avec les principes habituels d ' une bonne gestion des deniers publics . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , je répondrai aux attentes de Mme - Peijs et me bornerai à dire que j ' ai voté en faveur de ce rapport avec l ' espoir que tous les retraités recevront le 31 décembre 2001 une calculatrice convertissant leur monnaie en euros . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , je fais partie des députés qui ont déposé l ' amendement 7 pour que la campagne d ' information de la Commission sur l ' euro se limite aux pays qui font partie de l ' actuelle union monétaire . 
FRENCH Cela signifie que la Suède , le Danemark et la Grande - Bretagne doivent rester en dehors dans la mesure où la couronne et la livre sont toujours les devises de ces pays . 
FRENCH C ' est une demande bien fondée pour que l ' UE n ' entame pas , dans les États membres , des campagnes financées par des taxes sur des questions de politique intérieure sensibles . 
FRENCH Au fond , il est question de la tolérance vis - à - vis de chacun et du respect du processus démocratique de chaque peuple . 
FRENCH L ' introduction des nouveaux billets communs et des nouvelles pièces de monnaie communes aura une très grande importance , sur le plan pratique , pour les citoyens et les entreprises -- pas seulement parce que les pièces et les billets seront neufs , mais parce qu ' il faudra s ' habituer aux " nouveaux prix " exprimés dans la monnaie commune . 
FRENCH L ' argent est une chose dans laquelle il faut avoir confiance . 
FRENCH Nous avons insisté , à l ' occasion de notre vote , sur la nécessité de veiller à ce que les campagnes d ' information soient menées dans les différents pays par les États membres et que les différents pays concluent des accords spécifiques à ce propos . 
FRENCH Il est exact de déclarer que le gouvernement danois n ' a pas conclu un tel accord , mais nous espérons que le Danemark le fera après que la population danoise se soit prononcée -- nous l ' espérons -- en faveur de la monnaie commune à l ' occasion du référendum prévu le 28 septembre 2000 . 
FRENCH -- ( NL ) Mon parti , le parti socialiste aux Pays - Bas , n ' a jamais été un partisan de l ' introduction hâtive d ' une monnaie commune pour les pays de l ' Union européenne . 
FRENCH La prétendue stabilité de l ' euro est , en outre , obtenue au prix d ' importantes économies sur les revenus des personnes ne travaillant pas et sur les fonds accordés à l ' enseignement , la santé publique , le logement et les transports publics . 
FRENCH J ' estime , dès lors , que l ' euro est un élément pratique uniquement pour les hommes d ' affaires , les joyeux vacanciers et les membres du Parlement européen , mais pas pour la grande majorité des citoyens . 
FRENCH Le rapport Karas vise principalement à augmenter la confiance du grand public vis - à - vis de l ' euro , en faisant notamment appel aux associations sportives et à l ' enseignement . 
FRENCH Ce rapport souhaite , d ' autre part , dénoncer les pratiques d ' escrocs et d ' autres personnes qui profitent de l ' introduction de l ' euro pour augmenter leurs prix . 
FRENCH C ' - est en bloc que je rejette le rapport Karas . 
FRENCH Si l ' - objectif de familiariser les Européens avec leur future monnaie est parfaitement légitime , puisque le choix d ' - abandonner les monnaies nationales a été fait ( dans des conditions que je condamne ) , je refuse de toutes mes forces la propagande que ce texte organise en faveur de ce que M. Karas appelle " un élément essentiel du processus d ' - intégration européenne " qui " contribue à forger l ' - identité européenne " . 
FRENCH Comme nous étions loin alors de l ' - élément essentiel du processus d ' - intégration - ! 
FRENCH Ce texte sera , n ' - en doutons pas , une arme essentielle pour tous ceux qui , en Grande - Bretagne , en Suède et au Danemark , combattent pour préserver leurs démocraties nationales - : L ' - euro est bien , même si ses partisans le nient aujourd ' - hui dans ces pays , la machine de guerre d ' - une Europe fédérale que l ' - écrasante majorité de leurs populations refuse . 
FRENCH Alors , quand mes collègues rejettent l ' - amendement déposé par William Abitbol qui demande simplement que cet objectif intégrationniste soit clairement exposé dans les programmes de communication de la Commission , ils contribuent à une opération de propagande mensongère que leurs électeurs sanctionneront certainement . 
FRENCH La résolution du rapport Karas prétend que les femmes , pour des raisons inexpliquées , ne participent pas à l ' - enthousiasme général qui aurait dû accompagner la mise en place de l ' - euro . 
FRENCH On retrouve ici les accents désagréables des propagandistes révolutionnaires de toutes les époques , qui voient dans chaque foyer un complot réactionnaire des jupons et de la calotte pour refuser des lendemains qui chantent . 
FRENCH Il n ' - est , semble - t - il , venu à l ' - esprit de personne que c ' - est peut - être en raison de leur expérience en matière d ' - économie quotidienne que les femmes sont plus que réticentes au passage à l ' - euro . 
FRENCH Voilà qui est méprisable et trahit bien la dictature de la pensée unique qui consiste à taxer les opposants , les opposantes , ou les " réticents " à l ' - euro d ' - ignorants , d ' - analphabètes , de sous développés . 
FRENCH Voyez à quoi mène l ' - aveuglement fédéraliste - ! 
FRENCH Rapport Lambert ( A5 - 0162 / 2000 ) 
FRENCH . -- Les rapports d ' - activité annuels du médiateur et de la commission des pétitions font partie des traditions de cette maison . 
FRENCH Aux bilans de ces deux organes , le Parlement répond à son tour par deux rapports assez semblables d ' - une année sur l ' - autre . 
FRENCH Une nouveauté cependant - : le rapport Thors , s ' - appuyant notamment sur les travaux de la commission constitutionnelle et sur la demande de M. Söderman , prétend donner au médiateur un droit d ' - accès général à tous les documents dont la consultation est nécessaire à l ' - instruction des plaintes . 
FRENCH Nous nous opposons à cette proposition , non pas parce que nous refuserions tout contrôle sur l ' - administration , mais parce que de tels pouvoirs vont au - delà des compétences d ' - un médiateur pour atteindre celles d ' - un juge . 
FRENCH Il est évident , et ce n ' - est certainement pas nous qui dirons le contraire , que la délirante administration communautaire et les méfaits qu ' - elle engendre ne peuvent que créer chez nos concitoyens une insatisfaction grandissante et , partant , engendrer des recours de plus en plus nombreux . 
FRENCH La multiplication des compétences , la diversification des domaines d ' - intervention , la boulimie législative de la Commission et de notre Assemblée n ' - arrangeront sans doute pas ce phénomène . 
FRENCH Mais ce n ' - est pas le médiateur et ses quelques collaborateurs qui pourront répondre correctement à ces défis . 
FRENCH Il est de notre responsabilité politique de tarir les sources mêmes de ces litiges , en préférant la qualité de notre travail à un activisme textuel qui justifierait notre existence , en respectant réellement le principe de subsidiarité qui évitera à l ' - Union de se prononcer sur des sujets qui ne la concernent pas , en exerçant nous - mêmes , le cas échéant , les compétences que nous possédons en matière de contrôle des organes communautaires . 
FRENCH Nous avons vu trop souvent notre Assemblée se réfugier derrière des comités d ' - experts , parce qu ' - elle refusait d ' - assumer ses propres responsabilités politiques . 
FRENCH S ' - il faut laisser au médiateur le contrôle des problèmes d ' - intendance administrative , il nous faut apprendre de notre côté à maîtriser , en amont et en aval , la folle machine communautaire lancée dans une fuite en avant mortelle . 
FRENCH Les excès à combattre sont souvent le fruit de la nature même de l ' - actuelle construction européenne et c ' - est donc à la racine qu ' - il faut les combattre . 
FRENCH Rapport Atkins ( A5 - 0162 / 2000 ) 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , on ne pourra pas dire que je ne réponds pas aux attentes de Mme . - Peijs . 
FRENCH J ' ai en effet voté en faveur du rapport - Atkins parce que pour les pensionnés , qui n ' ont plus beaucoup de temps à vivre , la ponctualité des avions est très importante , précisément parce qu ' il leur reste peu de temps . 
FRENCH Hélas , je dois constater que c ' - est uniquement sous l ' - angle libéral que l ' - on envisage ce secteur . 
FRENCH Le rapport de M. Atkins , qui traite de la proposition de la Commission européenne relative au ciel unique , s ' - inscrit dans cette logique de libéralisation à tout va . 
FRENCH C ' - est ce qui a provoqué la grève des contrôleurs aériens français la semaine dernière . 
FRENCH Ils ont ainsi exprimé leurs inquiétudes face à une conception uniquement commerciale de leur profession . 
FRENCH Je comprends leur mouvement , ce qui n ' - est certainement pas le cas de M. Atkins qui , dans son rapport , " invite la Commission à exhorter les gouvernements des États membres qui , actuellement , tolèrent que les conflits du travail nationaux perturbent le trafic aérien , à s ' - attaquer d ' - urgence à ce problème " . 
FRENCH C ' - est dérisoire - ! 
FRENCH Personne ne nie la réalité de la dégradation de la situation du trafic aérien . 
FRENCH Je veux donc saluer la volonté de Mme De Palacio , la commissaire en charge du dossier transport , de prendre le problème à bras le corps afin d ' - arriver rapidement à la création d ' - un ciel unique européen . 
FRENCH Cependant , je suis en total désaccord avec les moyens qu ' - elle nous présente tout comme je désapprouve les propositions du rapport . 
FRENCH La fonction de contrôle pourrait s ' exercer au sein de sociétés séparées dont le capital serait ouvert aux compagnies aériennes ou à des partenaires privés . 
FRENCH Cette libéralisation conduirait à fragiliser la sécurité dans les transports aériens , ce qui est bien entendu inacceptable et en contradiction avec le traité CE , aux termes duquel l ' - amélioration de la sécurité des transports constitue l ' - un des principaux objectifs de la politique commune des transports . 
FRENCH Certes , la France apparaît comme un cas isolé en Europe , où le contrôle aérien , dans la plupart des pays , est géré par des agences , sous tutelle de l ' - État mais ouvertes aux capitaux privés . 
FRENCH La France tient à maintenir ces activités dans le service public . 
FRENCH Il faut appliquer ici le principe de subsidiarité et laisser chaque État membre maître de l ' - organisation du contrôle aérien . 
FRENCH C ' - est une exigence , d ' - autant plus que le problème des retards ne vient pas du contrôle aérien , qui n ' - est responsable que de moins de 25 - % des retards - ! 
FRENCH En conclusion , je soutiens les propositions qui visent à renforcer le rôle d ' - Eurocontrol , l ' - agence paneuropéenne responsable de la gestion de l ' - espace aérien d ' - États européens , membres ou non de l ' - UE , en tant qu ' - autorité réglementaire . 
FRENCH Le rapport sous - estime à tort le potentiel de cette agence , et j ' - ai voté contre un rapport parfaitement inacceptable . 
FRENCH . -- J ' ai voté contre le rapport de M. - Atkins , car il est en total décalage avec la réalité et s ' inscrit dans une vision d ' a priori idéologique , plus que dans le souci de répondre aux besoins réels de nos concitoyens et des usagers du transport aérien . 
FRENCH Bien sûr , il ne s ' agit pas de nier la nécessité d ' améliorer la situation de la régulation et du contrôle aérien en Europe dans l ' esprit du ciel unique européen . 
FRENCH C ' est une évidence que les avions qui traversent nos airs ne sauraient être tributaires de traitements incohérents , non coordonnés , compliqués , de leur passage . 
FRENCH Et il est vrai que si des progrès ont été engagés avec Eurocontrol , le temps est déjà venu de franchir une nouvelle étape et d ' améliorer le dispositif , avec un impératif majeur qui doit passer au dessus de tout - : la sécurité , la régulation et le contrôle aérien ne doivent pas relever de la loi de la concurrence , mais bien du concept de service d ' intérêt général . 
FRENCH D ' ailleurs , les États - Unis n ' ont jamais libéralisé leur contrôle aérien puisque c ' est une agence d ' État qui le gère . 
FRENCH C ' est tout dire - ! 
FRENCH Or , tout le rapport Atkins vise à cet objectif de mise en concurrence d ' un service dont on voit mal comment il pourrait être source de profit privé et qui trouverait ses critères de performance dans les profits dégagés - ! 
FRENCH Par ailleurs , les prétextes donnés pour accélérer cette libéralisation sont les retards des avions . 
FRENCH En effet , il convient d ' y remédier , mais , pour être efficace , il convient d ' analyser les raisons effectives de ceux - ci et les solutions réelles . 
FRENCH Cela montre d ' abord qu ' il convient de faire la part entre les dysfonctionnements conjoncturels ( usage de l ' espace par les militaires pour le Kosovo , changement du système de contrôle , etc ) . 
FRENCH et structurels . 
FRENCH Il faut aussi mesurer tout ce qui relève des compagnies aériennes ou de l ' étroitesse de l ' espace civil européen , au regard du nombre des survols . 
FRENCH La part du contrôle aérien dans ces retards n ' est pas gigantesque , au bout du compte , et en tout cas l ' amélioration du système passe par une meilleure organisation de la coordination des différents systèmes de contrôle dans les États membres , en confortant Eurocontrol dans ce rôle . 
FRENCH Voilà ce que devraient être la priorité et les lignes directrices du ciel unique européen . 
FRENCH Hélas , la Commission ne semble pas sur cette ligne , et le rapport Atkins apparaît pire encore . 
FRENCH Le secteur du trafic aérien est organisé , de longue date , de manière particulièrement libérale . 
FRENCH Cela est dû à la concurrence des autorités entre elles afin de proposer un nombre sans cesse plus important d ' aéroports toujours plus grands , et au fait qu ' en dehors de ces aéroports , aucune infrastructure comparable aux voies ferrées et aux autoroutes n ' est nécessaire . 
FRENCH Il est , de ce fait , normal depuis toujours dans ce secteur que différentes compagnies se fassent concurrence sur un même itinéraire . 
FRENCH Les prix des billets d ' avion témoignent également de cette liberté . 
FRENCH Inutile de chercher un lien entre la distance à parcourir et le prix du vol . 
FRENCH Les vols pour lesquels un nombre plus important de passagers est souhaité sont bon marché - ; le prix des vols pour lesquels on estime qu ' il y a plus qu ' assez de passagers est élevé . 
FRENCH Certaines personnes espèrent pourtant trouver , en poussant la libéralisation encore plus loin , un remède miracle à tous les maux . 
FRENCH Cela aurait pour conséquence une réduction du prix des billets , une offre plus importante de vols et la suppression des retards . 
FRENCH Le groupe de la Gauche unitaire européenne trouve cette évaluation particulièrement simpliste , celle - ci se limitant à deux intérêts . D ' une part , celui des compagnies aériennes , d ' autre part celui du consommateur dont le seul objectif est un nombre toujours plus important de vols toujours moins chers . 
FRENCH Pour nous , d ' autres points sont plus importants , tels que la sécurité des passagers , la garantie d ' emploi et les conditions de travail du personnel , la protection de l ' environnement et la protection des chemins de fer contre le dumping et autres formes de concurrence déloyale . 
FRENCH Tenir le personnel , qui se voit parfois contraint de se mettre en grève pour se protéger , responsable de tout ce qui peut provoquer l ' énervement des passagers n ' a guère de sens . 
FRENCH La faute n ' est pas non plus à imputer à Eurocontrol , qui a repris un certain nombre de tâches étatiques transfrontalières . 
FRENCH La sécurité ne doit pas passer après la course aux bénéfices des sociétés souhaitant reprendre le marché d ' Eurocontrol . 
FRENCH Ce problème ne sera pas résolu avec les propositions actuelles . 
FRENCH Nous avons présenté , de ce point de vue critique , 11 amendements . 
FRENCH Maintenant qu ' il s ' est avéré qu ' une majorité du Parlement ne soutenait pas notre vision , nous n ' avons pas pu approuver la version définitive du rapport Atkins . 
FRENCH Le présent rapport , tout en partant de certaines situations réelles -- comme l ' augmentation du trafic aérien ou les retards constatés sur certaines routes -- et de certaines affirmations correctes -- en particulier la nécessité de garantir et renforcer la sécurité du transport aérien - , escamote cependant les causes profondes de ces situations , qui sont indissociables des libéralisations successives au niveau des transports aériens et de la concurrence effrénée qui en découle . 
FRENCH Il faut bien sûr une coopération effective et des mesures techniques indispensables et régulatrices dans ce domaine , mais nous ne sommes pas d ' accord avec ces orientations encore plus libérales que celles de la Commission . 
FRENCH . -- Le 26 juin - 2000, les aiguilleurs du ciel français étaient en grève pour protester contre les projets de l ' Union européenne de libéralisation du contrôle aérien - : je tiens à manifester ma solidarité avec cette grève et avec les revendications des syndicats du contrôle aérien . 
FRENCH Les réponses à la saturation de l ' espace aérien européen entraînent une fuite en avant , par la multiplication des aéroports et des pistes , la dégradation des conditions de travail des salariés du secteur et l ' augmentation des nuisances . 
FRENCH Nous nous prononçons au contraire pour un développement harmonisé des transports à l ' échelle européenne , qui donne la priorité à la satisfaction des besoins sociaux réels et qui choisisse par exemple la voie ferroviaire pour les besoins du plus grand nombre , notamment pour les distances inférieures à 500 kilomètres . 
FRENCH Libéraliser le contrôle aérien ne résoudra pas le problème des retards , puisque ceux - ci ne sont imputables que pour 20 à 30 - % au contrôle . 
FRENCH On sait que les militaires accaparent aujourd ' hui , en France par exemple , 80 - % de l ' espace aérien . 
FRENCH Pourquoi ceci n ' est - il pas remis en cause - ? 
FRENCH La Commission prend prétexte des retards pour aller vers une séparation entre un office européen de régulation et la mise en place d ' un marché intérieur privatisé pour les fournitures de services de trafic aérien . 
FRENCH De telles mesures , prises sous la pression du lobbying des compagnies aériennes , ne pourront se faire qu ' au détriment de la sécurité , d ' autant plus que les compagnies elles - mêmes pourront se porter candidates pour de telles prestations de services . 
FRENCH C ' est pour ces raisons que j ' - ai voté contre ce rapport . 
FRENCH Rapport Damião ( A5 - 0141 / 2000 ) 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , j ' ai voté en faveur du rapport Damião notamment parce que j ' ai voté en faveur de l ' amendement prévoyant cent pour cent des indemnités de maternité . 
FRENCH La maternité n ' est pas une maladie . 
FRENCH Ce matin , je lisais dans les journaux italiens que l ' on détaxerait les soins aux chiens et aux chats . 
FRENCH Dès lors , s ' il y a de l ' argent pour les animaux , il doit aussi y en avoir pour les femmes qui accouchent , qui ne sont pas malades mais qui sont des personnes ayant droit à une indemnité complète . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , ce rapport sur les mesures visant à promouvoir l ' amélioration de la sécurité et de la santé des travailleuses enceintes , accouchées ou allaitantes au travail est très honorable et va dans la bonne direction . 
FRENCH Le point 11, en particulier , comporte de nombreuses propositions positives . 
FRENCH Je voudrais par la même occasion mettre en garde contre une évolution qui implique que nous nous consacrions , au sein du Parlement européen , à la politique sociale et à la législation sociale , ce qui , à mon avis , est à tout point de vue du ressort des États membres . 
FRENCH C ' est un point très important de l ' identité culturelle et sociale , que chaque peuple et chaque pays façonnent . 
FRENCH Faisons en sorte que cela reste une question nationale - ! 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , la femme enceinte et son enfant à naître , les femmes qui viennent d ' accoucher et qui allaitent doivent être soutenus autant que possible pendant cette période qui est très importante , non seulement pour la mère et son enfant , mais aussi pour la société , si l ' on tient compte du faible taux de naissance et du vieillissement de la population en Europe aujourd ' hui . 
FRENCH Il est clair que les employeurs ont des responsabilités sociales , mais les gouvernements devraient montrer l ' exemple , tout spécialement dans des pays comme le mien , où le rôle de la mère et celui de la famille sont protégés par la constitution . 
FRENCH Malheureusement , la situation semble être différente en Irlande en ce qui concerne les congés de maternité rémunérés , les moyens mis en & # x0153 ; uvre pour faciliter l ' allaitement , et la dispense de travail de nuit . 
FRENCH Je cite ces exemples pour souligner le fait qu ' il ne suffit pas d ' adopter une directive pour qu ' elle soit appliquée . 
FRENCH Il est grand temps de cesser de faire des promesses en l ' air aux mères qui travaillent , à leurs enfants et à leurs familles dans notre Communauté européenne . 
FRENCH Il est cependant déplorable que le rapport ne propose même pas d ' aligner , dans tous les domaines , les avantages et les droits sur les pays où ils sont les plus favorables aux femmes enceintes qui travaillent . 
FRENCH Par ailleurs , nous ne voulons pas que notre vote en faveur de la protection spécifique , pendant leur grossesse , des femmes travaillant la nuit puisse être interprété comme la reconnaissance de la légitimité du travail de nuit des femmes . 
FRENCH Nous tenons , au contraire , à réaffirmer notre opposition au travail de nuit , quand ce n ' est pas socialement utile , non seulement pour les femmes mais aussi pour les hommes . 
FRENCH L ' interdiction du travail de nuit des femmes était un acquis du mouvement ouvrier en France . 
FRENCH Revenir là - dessus est une régression sociale . 
FRENCH Invoquer l ' égalité entre hommes et femmes y ajoute l ' hypocrisie . 
FRENCH Une hypocrisie destinée à masquer le fait que le législateur tient plus à assurer aux patrons l ' utilisation profitable de leurs matériels qu ' à garantir la santé et la sécurité de leurs salariés . 
FRENCH Je me suis abstenu lors du vote sur l ' amendement 2, soumis au nom de M. Bushill - Matthews , qui en appelait à la nécessité de reconnaître les besoins spécifiques des PME lors de la mise en & # x0153 ; uvre de la législation relative à la santé et à la sécurité . 
FRENCH Je partage son souhait , mais l ' amendement est superflu , puisque l ' article 137 ( 2 ) du Traité mentionne clairement que les directives à caractère social , y compris celles qui concernent la santé et la sécurité des travailleurs , doivent éviter " d ' imposer des contraintes administratives , financières et juridiques telles qu ' elles contrarieraient la création et le développement de petites et moyennes entreprises " . 
FRENCH Je pense donc que les points exprimés dans l ' amendement sont déjà couverts et qu ' il est inutile de les répéter dans ce rapport . 
FRENCH La proposition du Parlement européen comporte nombre d ' - éléments positifs qui , cependant , sont annulés en raison de sa propre faiblesse à poser globalement le problème des développements négatifs dans le cadre du travail et des relations de travail . 
FRENCH À partir du moment où n ' - est même pas effleuré le problème capital de la restructuration des relations de travail , de la réduction et de l ' - abolition des droits fondamentaux et des acquis des travailleurs , à partir du moment où est aussi occulté le problème des conditions de travail - - flexibilisation du temps et des conditions de travail , travail temporaire et à temps partiel , réduction de la sécurité et de la protection sociales - - , le cadre dans lequel est conçue la proposition est totalement négatif et suspensif pour l ' - application d ' - une quelconque politique en faveur de la protection des travailleuses , avant et après la grossesse . 
FRENCH Nous voudrions que soit accordée une importance particulière , tout en soulignant les dangers afférents , à la stricte interdiction des licenciements , - - notamment à l ' - heure actuelle où se sont largement généralisées les conventions de travail atypiques - - , aux barrages indirects qui font obstacle au recrutement des femmes enceintes , à la nécessité non seulement de protéger et garantir le congé de maternité , mais aussi d ' - en allonger la durée , au besoin de définir plus clairement les allocations de maternité , au maintien de contrôles plus stricts et plus consistants relativement au travail de nuit des travailleuses enceintes et accouchées . 
FRENCH D ' - une part , il est indispensable de renforcer le cadre juridique nécessaire à la protection de la sécurité et de la santé des femmes enceintes , en comblant ses lacunes et éclaircissant ses obscurités - - " - chevaux de Troie - " augurant de son altération et de sa violation . D ' - autre part , il faut faire face à l ' - absence de volonté politique conduisant à l ' - application effective de la directive par les gouvernements des États membres , absence facilement démontrable si l ' - on examine la position des mécanismes de contrôle des États membres au cours de la période précédente . 
FRENCH À cet égard , l ' - exemple de la Grèce est caractéristique , si l ' - on considère l ' - absence de contrôles quant à l ' - obligation impartie à l ' - employeur de rédiger une évaluation circonstanciée des risques professionnels encourus sur les lieux du travail , dans laquelle doit aussi être inclue l ' - analyse précise des risques pour les travailleuses enceintes et accouchées . 
FRENCH La réalité démontre que , lorsque l ' employabilité et l ' - " adaptabilité " relèvent de la ligne directrice des priorités communautaires dans les questions de l ' - emploi , toute protection se révèle inexistante et , en pratique , les règlements spécifiques sont annulés . 
FRENCH Le problème est de savoir quelles sont les directions qui sont données , quel genre de politique de l ' - emploi est exercée . 
FRENCH Et , malheureusement , l ' - UE - - elle nous le confirme - - persiste dans une limitation drastique des allocations et de la sécurité sociale , amende pour le pire les dispositions concernant les licenciements , la réduction ou l ' - abolition des mesures de protection dans le cadre des conditions de travail . 
FRENCH Aucune illusion n ' - est plus permise ni sur le caractère de la politique de l ' - emploi et , généralement , de la politique sociale de l ' - UE , ni sur les intérêts qu ' - elle sert . C ' est la raison pour laquelle , même si nous nous partageons le positionnement positif du Parlement européen dans la question de la protection des travailleuses enceintes , nous pensons qu ' - il ne s ' - agit , une fois de plus , que d ' - un exposé d ' - idées et de bonnes intentions . 
FRENCH Aussi appelons - nous les travailleuses et les travailleurs à poursuivre leurs luttes sociales pour parvenir à un changement d ' - ensemble de la politique du travail et à la promotion d ' - une nouvelle politique axée sur l ' - homme , sur le respect de ses besoins et de sa dignité . 
FRENCH Des luttes dont l ' - objectif primordial est la réalisation du principe du plein emploi et de la stabilité de l ' - emploi , ainsi que la protection des droits acquis et reconnus pour tous . 
FRENCH Ce n ' - est que dans ce cadre que peuvent être garantis les droits de cette catégorie particulièrement sensible des femmes enceintes , les droits et le respect de la vie qui n ' - est pas une matière première objet de profit et ne répond pas aux lois du coût , de la concurrence et du marché impitoyable . 
FRENCH . -- Nous sommes favorables à toutes les modifications de la directive visant à améliorer la protection des salariées enceintes avant , pendant et après leur congé de maternité . 
FRENCH La résolution propose de combler les lacunes de l ' actuelle directive et d ' harmoniser les législations européennes pour les aligner sur celles qui garantissent le plus de droits . 
FRENCH Nous souscrivons à de telles propositions au nom de la garantie du droit à la santé des salariés . Et ce , d ' autant plus que les projets de modification de la Convention sur la protection de la maternité de l ' OIT ( Convention - 103 ) laissent entrevoir de nombreux reculs , tels que l ' exclusion de certaines femmes du bénéfice du congé maternité , la durée minimale de ce congé , et la possibilité de licencier une femme pendant son congé . 
FRENCH Il est nécessaire de fixer un cadre européen rigoureux pour protéger les femmes enceintes contre toute discrimination pendant l ' embauche , sur la question de leurs conditions de travail , sur l ' accès et la durée du congé maternité - : 20 semaines dont 8 obligatoires après l ' accouchement . 
FRENCH Enfin , il faut interdire le travail de nuit pour les femmes et les hommes dans les secteurs où il n ' est pas indispensable , plutôt que de chercher à l ' aménager pour les femmes enceintes . 
FRENCH Développement du transport maritime à courte distance 
FRENCH L ' - ordre du jour appelle le rapport ( A5 - 0139 / 2000 ) de Mme Peijs , au nom de la commission de la politique régionale , des transports et du tourisme , sur la communication de la Commission au Conseil , au Parlement européen , au Comité économique et social et au Comité des régions " Le développement du transport maritime à courte distance en Europe - : Une alternative dynamique dans une chaîne de transport durable -- deuxième rapport d ' avancement bisannuel " ( COM ( 1999 ) 317 -- C5 - 0206 / 1999 -- 1999 / 2164 ( COS ) ) . 
FRENCH Je cède la parole à Mme Peijs , rapporteur . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , en 1995, la Commission a présenté sur la base de la stratégie formulée dans le Livre blanc sur une politique commune des transports , une communication sur le développement du transport maritime à courte distance . 
FRENCH Nous en sommes actuellement au deuxième rapport d ' avancement bisannuel sur ce sujet . 
FRENCH Cependant , après cinq ans , il est clair que le transport maritime à courte distance n ' est toujours qu ' une belle promesse , qui n ' est pas tenue , malgré le soutien oral du Conseil des ministres des Transports du 8 décembre 1999, qui considérait le transport maritime à courte distance comme une priorité . 
FRENCH Nous ne tentons pas , pour des motifs idéalistes , d ' imposer le transport maritime à courte distance . 
FRENCH Il est impossible de satisfaire à cette demande croissante au moyen du seul transport par route . 
FRENCH Le transport maritime à courte distance ne représente dès lors pas un concurrent pour le transport par route , le transport ferroviaire ou le transport sur les voies navigables intérieures - ; il s ' agit d ' une alternative dans la chaîne de transport . 
FRENCH Nous avons tous intérêt à limiter le plus possible l ' irritation des communautés d ' habitation vis - à - vis du transport de marchandises continu à grande vitesse . 
FRENCH Le transport doit également être le moins polluant possible et , sur ce plan aussi , le transport maritime à courte distance répond à de hautes exigences . 
FRENCH La rapidité n ' est peut - être pas la caractéristique principale du transport maritime à courte distance . La sécurité bien . 
FRENCH Les interdictions de circuler le week - end et les embouteillages sont des fléaux pour le transport par route . 
FRENCH Dans de nombreux cas , le transport maritime à courte distance peut constituer une solution à ces problèmes s ' il est utilisé pour compléter d ' autres formes de transport . 
FRENCH Je n ' entends d ' ailleurs pas prétendre que cela représente une solution dans tous les cas . 
FRENCH Nous pouvons déjà remédier à de nombreux problèmes en nous attelant sérieusement à utiliser tous les modes de transport de façon optimale et en les combinant le mieux possible . 
FRENCH Mais pour ce faire , il faut répondre à un certain nombre de conditions . 
FRENCH Dans sa communication , la Commission attire expressément l ' attention sur les entreprises elles - mêmes . 
FRENCH C ' est possible , mais en tant que rapporteur , je voudrais cependant apporter une certaine nuance . 
FRENCH Pour certains points très clairs , ce sont avant tout les autorités nationales , locales et régionales qui peuvent peser dans la balance et donner une impulsion au transport maritime à courte distance . 
FRENCH Dans sa communication , la Commission européenne expose l ' affaire . 
FRENCH Le Parlement et votre rapporteur ont examiné de façon critique les plans de la Commission et ont tenté d ' aboutir à ce rapport , en concertation avec toutes les parties impliquées , comme il convient à un Parlement . 
FRENCH On demande aux entreprises de mettre en avant les points pratiques pouvant , selon elles , entraver le développement du transport maritime à courte distance . 
FRENCH Nous attendons toujours ce compte - rendu . 
FRENCH Je voudrais souligner un certain nombre de points . 
FRENCH Une fois de plus , le transport maritime à courte distance ne pourra être fructueux en Europe que s ' il est considéré comme faisant partie intégrante de la chaîne de transport . 
FRENCH Dans ce cadre , des liaisons avec l ' arrière - pays sous la forme de transport ferroviaire , sur les voies navigables intérieures et par route constituent un élément essentiel . 
FRENCH Le transport maritime à courte distance est également idéal pour le transport spécialisé , par exemple de voitures . 
FRENCH L ' innovation dans la construction de bateaux spécialisés est ici d ' une importance capitale et peut constituer une impulsion pour notre construction navale . 
FRENCH Le secteur souffre du poids de la bureaucratie . 
FRENCH Les procédures sont sans fin . 
FRENCH Mais progressivement , on observe également de nombreux points positifs dans le secteur . 
FRENCH Les entreprises doivent prendre leurs responsabilités , par exemple en créant des centres régionaux de promotion et de commercialisation , mais le marché a besoin d ' être soutenu . 
FRENCH Les États membres doivent supprimer les entraves . 
FRENCH Je pense par exemple au monopole sur le transport par route , avec toutes les conséquences que cela entraîne pour les prix auxquels la navigation doit se ranger dans le port de transport maritime à courte distance de Bilbao . 
FRENCH Nous rencontrons partout des procédures bureaucratiques d ' une longueur démesurée et une administration excessive pour accompagner la cargaison . 
FRENCH Le Parlement demande de la flexibilité par rapport au secteur , afin que celui - ci puisse acquérir une meilleure position au niveau du prix . 
FRENCH Nous pensons par exemple à l ' affranchissement des services de lamanage dans les ports , preuve de l ' expérience des capitaines à l ' appui . 
FRENCH Une erreur particulièrement dérangeante figure par ailleurs à ce point dans l ' erratum . Il y est question de l ' expérience des lamaneurs . 
FRENCH Le terme lamaneurs doit bien évidemment être remplacé par le terme capitaines - ; sinon , cela n ' a aucun sens . 
FRENCH Actuellement , le marché est toujours fragmenté . 
FRENCH C ' est pour cette raison que le Parlement insiste dans son rapport sur la nécessité de regrouper en un point l ' offre de services logistiques de transport faite aux utilisateurs finaux , regroupement devant couvrir la mise à disposition de transports multimodaux et corriger ainsi la fragmentation des services actuels . 
FRENCH Dans mon rapport , je plaide en outre en faveur de mesures de stimulation de la part de la Commission . Des stimulants sont nécessaires pour encourager le transport maritime à courte distance . 
FRENCH En vue des liaisons européennes , j ' invite la Commission à mettre sur pied des programmes d ' investissement notamment dans le Bassin méditerranéen et dans les ports de l ' Adriatique . 
FRENCH Le transport maritime à courte distance a besoin de destinations . 
FRENCH Avoir de magnifiques terminaux de transport à courte distance à Rotterdam , c ' est bien - ; encore faut - il pouvoir aller quelque part . 
FRENCH Lors de l ' ébauche de nouvelles lignes , une masse critique est nécessaire , et cela peut prendre un an ou deux . 
FRENCH L ' Union européenne devra contribuer à surmonter ces difficultés avec des prêts bon marché de la Banque européenne d ' investissement . 
FRENCH En outre , nous ne disposons pas des données et statistiques sur lesquelles les entreprises peuvent baser leurs investissements . 
FRENCH Tout le monde ignore ce que nous transportons , de quelle manière , vers où et dans quelles quantités . 
FRENCH Je pense que des statistiques relatives à la nature et à la destination des cargaisons constituent l ' un des éléments dont nous avons besoin rapidement pour pouvoir mener une politique pour le transport qui augmentera les prochaines années . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , au nom de mes collègues , MM . - Ripoll et Pérez Álvarez , qui ont travaillé sur ce rapport -- mais qui ont dû s ' - absenter - , je voudrais féliciter le rapporteur , Mme Peijs , pour l ' excellent rapport qu ' - elle a réalisé , surtout parce qu ' - il aborde un problème important selon une approche très réelle et pratique . 
FRENCH Je voudrais dire , par ailleurs , que je regrette à présent deux choses - : premièrement , de ne pas pouvoir connaître l ' avis de notre ami Fatuzzo sur la façon dont le transport maritime à courte distance influence les intérêts des retraités européens et , deuxièmement , qu ' - il y ait si peu de députés car , en réfléchissant aux intérêts égoïstes de cette Assemblée , il est probable qu ' - un jour ils regrettent de ne pas avoir pris connaissance du problème du transport maritime à courte distance , car peut - être devrons - nous l ' - utiliser un jour pour nos allées et venues à Strasbourg . 
FRENCH Pour entrer dans le vif du sujet , il faut dire à Mme Peijs que nous avons suivi avec grand intérêt les actions et développements qui ces dernières années , en particulier à la suite de la constitution du forum des industries maritimes , ont été menées au sein de l ' - Union européenne en vue de la promotion du transport maritime à courte distance en tant qu ' - alternative au transport terrestre . 
FRENCH Le rapport de la Commission et le rapport du rapporteur mettent en relief différents avantages comparatifs entre les deux types de transport , parmi lesquels je soulignerais , s ' agissant du transport maritime , la baisse de la saturation des infrastructures , leur moindre coût , la réduction de leur consommation énergétique , ce qui implique une réduction des émissions de polluants dans , et l ' - amélioration des communications avec les régions périphériques de l ' - Union européenne . 
FRENCH Nous estimons -- et je pense que nous sommes tous d ' - accord sur ce point -- que le transfert des charges du mode de transport terrestre au maritime devrait être considéré comme un objectif prioritaire des politiques de transport de l ' - Union européenne . 
FRENCH Je voudrais souligner qu ' une série d ' actions prises ces deux dernières années ont eu des retombées positives sur le transport maritime à courte distance . 
FRENCH Comme le signale le rapport de la Commission , entre 1990 et 1997, cela a permis à l ' - activité du transport maritime intracommunautaire de croître de 23 - % . 
FRENCH Néanmoins , son taux de croissance est objectivement modeste - - le taux de croissance annuel cumulé n ' atteint que 3 - % - - , et inférieur à celui que connaît le transport terrestre , à savoir , 26 - % . 
FRENCH Par conséquent , au lieu d ' - un rapprochement de ces positions relatives entre le transport maritime et terrestre , la différence entre les deux a continué d ' - augmenter . 
FRENCH Tout indique donc qu ' - il faut prendre des mesures quantitatives plus énergiques et probablement envisager le problème sous un angle qualitatif différent . 
FRENCH Le rapport de Mme Peijs nous semble très équilibré , mais nous voudrions attirer l ' - attention sur un des objectifs clés pour la promotion du transport maritime à courte distance - : la réduction simultanée du temps et du coût direct des opérations portuaires des navires qui fournissent ce type de services . 
FRENCH Dans bien des cas , les services portuaires -- concernant le navire et les marchandises -- sont fournis sans concurrence réelle ou avec une concurrence très limitée , ce qui entraîne souvent des abus de position dominante , comme l ' - imposition de services obligatoires inutiles et même inutilisés comme , par exemple , le pilotage , le remorquage , l ' - amarrage ou la manutention portuaire , ainsi que le paiement de tarifs très élevés . 
FRENCH En tout cas , à part quelques rares exceptions , les services maritimes transocéaniques ne sont pas confrontés à la concurrence de la route et , dans la plupart des cas , le transport aérien ne représente pas non plus un concurrent réel . 
FRENCH Dès lors , nous pensons que si nous voulons promouvoir le transport maritime à courte distance de manière réaliste et efficace , il est indispensable de maintenir le type actuel de fourniture de services portuaires , en améliorant leur efficacité et en réduisant leurs coûts . 
FRENCH Il ne faut pas non plus oublier leur importance pour l ' - économie des régions où il existe une industrie de construction navale . 
FRENCH Cela suppose une revitalisation de toute la région , comme le savent très bien ceux qui vivent dans ces villes , dans ces régions , où l ' - industrie navale constitue un élément très actif de l ' - économie locale . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , Monsieur le Commissaire , chers collègues , la question m ' a été posée - : pourquoi nous engageons - nous de la sorte , sur le plan européen , pour le transport maritime à courte distance - ? 
FRENCH La réponse est - : nous avons une vision . 
FRENCH Les marchandises seront déchargées là où elles atteindront leur destination par la voie terrestre la plus courte . 
FRENCH Le trafic terrestre sera ainsi déchargé , car un autre maillon de la chaîne de transport intermodale sera complété . 
FRENCH Nous sommes à des milles marins d ' - une telle réalité , même si , comme le montre le rapport , certaines choses ont été accomplies au cours de ces deux dernières années . 
FRENCH Le bon rapport de Mme Peijs thématise les obstacles actuels et les stratégies en vue de la concrétisation de nos visions . 
FRENCH Un grand consensus a été obtenu au sein de la commission . 
FRENCH Que pouvons - nous faire , sur le plan interne , pour le transport maritime à courte distance - ? 
FRENCH Je dirai simplement que , sur le plan technique , il faut introduire des moteurs moins polluants et des terminaux spécifiques pour le transbordement express . 
FRENCH Sur le plan organisationnel , avant toute chose dans le cadre des transports transfrontaliers , nous avons besoin de papiers de transport uniformes , de procédures administratives simplifiées et moins de services de lamanage , là où cela n ' - est pas absolument nécessaire . 
FRENCH Tout d ' - abord , améliorer les interfaces vers les autres moyens de transport à l ' - aide de dispositifs de transbordement modernes -- en particulier pour la navigation intérieure - , simplifier les conteneurs , promouvoir des services logistiques pour l ' - ensemble de la chaîne des transports et bien plus encore que ce qui ne figure dans le rapport . 
FRENCH Je pense que nous devrions envisager toutes ces considérations dans le cadre de nos stratégies de préadhésion . 
FRENCH L ' - échange des meilleures pratiques serait judicieux , nous dit le rapport . 
FRENCH C ' - est exact , car à quelle fin soutenons - nous depuis un certain temps un centre de référence pour le transport intermodal - ? 
FRENCH Il serait judicieux d ' - engager plus de recherches et avant tout de créer des projets de démonstration dans le domaine intermodal . 
FRENCH Dans l ' - ensemble , le rapport offre tout un ensemble de conseils judicieux . 
FRENCH J ' - espère que le prochain rapport d ' - avancement nous confirmera , dans deux ans , que nous nous sommes approchés de notre vision d ' - un système de transport intermodal fructueux en Europe . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , j ' aimerais revenir sur trois aspects de l ' excellent rapport de Mme Peijs et les illustrer par des exemples . 
FRENCH J ' aimerais tout d ' abord aborder l ' intermodalité et le besoin d ' optimiser l ' infrastructure de liaison à l ' arrière - pays . 
FRENCH Dans ce contexte , un accès aisé du chemin de fer dans les ports est tout à fait primordial . 
FRENCH Nous devons cependant accepter que c ' est parfois le réseau routier qui constitue le meilleur accès à l ' arrière - pays . 
FRENCH Je cite en exemple l ' intégration , dans le réseau RTE , de la A75 reliant Graina à Stranraer , vu son importance pour le transport maritime de et vers l ' Irlande du Nord . 
FRENCH Citons comme second point l ' important degré de dépendance des régions éloignées et des îles par rapport à la mer pour établir des contacts avec leurs voisins . 
FRENCH Nous considérons trop souvent la mer comme une étendue qui sépare les communautés , alors que nous ferions mieux d ' y voir une autoroute permettant de les relier . 
FRENCH Dès lors , mon groupe soutient les amendements 1 et 4 . 
FRENCH À l ' ouest de l ' Écosse , la distance séparant Gourock de Dunoon est vingt fois plus longue par voie de terre que par voie de mer , et celle reliant Tarbert à Portavadie l ' est 25 fois . 
FRENCH Troisièmement , il est essentiel de continuer à considérer certaines voies maritimes courtes comme des lignes de vie . 
FRENCH Et je ne parle pas uniquement ici du besoin de maintenir les obligations de services publics dans ce contexte . 
FRENCH Leur économie est très fragile et il est tout simplement inacceptable que les agriculteurs de l ' île de Lewis payent leur foin deux fois plus cher que ceux qui habitent près d ' Inverness . 
FRENCH J ' espère que la Commission prendra sérieusement ces points en considération lorsqu ' elle développera une politique dans ce domaine . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , dans ce groupe , nous accueillons favorablement le rapport de Mme Peijs et la position de la Commission à laquelle il répond . 
FRENCH Il est vrai en effet que le transport maritime à courte distance est respectueux de l ' environnement et qu ' il reste rentable , et il est vrai également que ce type de transport favorise le développement économique des régions côtières , mais en Écosse , nous faisons appel à la Commission afin qu ' elle fasse un effort en ce qui concerne la libéralisation à venir du transport maritime dans l ' ouest de l ' Écosse . 
FRENCH Comme Mme Attwool vient de le mentionner , il existe dans cette région , en plus du transport de et vers les îles , un important réseau de liaisons maritimes à courte distance entre ce que nous appelons des lochs de mer et que les géologues appellent des fjords , c ' est - à - dire qu ' au lieu de parcourir 150 kilomètres sur une route de montagne sinueuse , vous prenez un bateau pour une courte traversée . 
FRENCH Si nous cherchions une interprétation sensée du règlement sur le cabotage , nous dirions - : bien sûr , ces péninsules sont équivalentes à des îles d ' un point de vue fonctionnel et les obligations de services publics s ' y appliquent de la même manière . 
FRENCH Dans ce cas , l ' État pourrait légalement subventionner les services . 
FRENCH De même , on pourrait considérer de manière globale toutes ces routes qui sillonnent l ' ouest de l ' Écosse , plutôt que de les diviser , et d ' encourager ainsi une sélection par les chefs d ' entreprises privées qui empruntent les quelques routes payantes et rendent ainsi plus difficile l ' entretien des routes qui ne sont pas rentables toute l ' année . 
FRENCH Nous voulons une vue globale de ce type de problème en Europe , et nous souhaitons que la Commission en fasse une approche imaginative . 
FRENCH Auparavant , les membres de la Commission avaient déclaré très bien connaître l ' ouest de l ' Écosse . 
FRENCH Nous n ' avons encore reçu aucune réponse à cette question . 
FRENCH Je demande qu ' on y réponde de toute urgence . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , Madame le Rapporteur , Mesdames et Messieurs , l ' - avis formulé par la commission en matière de développement du transport maritime à courte distance en Europe et le très bon rapport y afférent de notre collègue Peijs nous donnent une image réaliste de l ' - évolution de ce type de transport non polluant au cours de ces deux dernières années en Europe . 
FRENCH Le développement et la promotion du transport maritime à courte distance , en particulier , ont permis d ' - accomplir un pas important en vue du développement d ' - un système de transport multimodal pour l ' - Union européenne et les régions avoisinantes . 
FRENCH Efficacité , rentabilité , respect de l ' - environnement et durabilité caractérisent ce mode de transport face au transport routier et peuvent offrir une alternative notable dans les régions côtières . 
FRENCH Il convient toutefois aussi de renforcer l ' - interaction des divers modes de transport , afin de faire valoir au mieux leurs atouts spécifiques respectifs . 
FRENCH C ' - est pourquoi plusieurs mesures de promotion européennes , nationales et régionales , publiques et privées , sont nécessaires , en vue d ' - adapter et de développer les ports , qui constituent le point névralgique au sein de la chaîne des transports , et ce de manière ciblée en fonction des exigences spécifiques . 
FRENCH Il convient en outre d ' - adapter les éléments techniques et organisationnels connexes , tels que formalités administratives et documents , procédures douanières et de chargement , de manière à permettre un passage rapide et fluide d ' - un type de transport à un autre et d ' - un pays à un autre . 
FRENCH Des incitants particuliers pour le développement de technologies innovatrices , des terminaux de dédouanement spécifiques pour le transport maritime à courte distance et l ' - intégration des ports dans la stratégie de développement des régions côtières seraient des moyens de soutien supplémentaires . 
FRENCH C ' - est essentiel pour renforcer la cohésion économique et sociale et le lien entre les régions centrales et périphériques au sein de l ' - Union européenne . 
FRENCH La collaboration économique croissante entre l ' - UE et ses pays voisins , le besoin de transport croissant qui en découle peuvent être concrétisés efficacement par le biais de l ' - intégration du transport maritime à courte distance dans la chaîne logistique de la livraison porte à porte . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , au nom de mon collègue Rijk van Dam , je voudrais dire ce qui suit . 
FRENCH La politique de transport exige des choix . 
FRENCH Une politique de transport durable exige encore plus , ou en tout cas d ' autres choix . 
FRENCH Faciliter les flux de marchandises et de personnes tout en évitant autant que possible les conséquences négatives - : telle est la tâche que nous devons accomplir ici . 
FRENCH Le moyen de transport dont il est question ici , le transport maritime à courte distance , a la réputation d ' être une forme de transport constituant à plus d ' un point de vue une solution aux conséquences négatives , à savoir la prise de place et le caractère néfaste pour l ' environnement , auxquelles nous confronte le secteur du transport . 
FRENCH Cependant , comme l ' a signalé tout à fait pertinemment Mme Peijs , le secteur n ' utilise actuellement pas ces possibilités de façon optimale . 
FRENCH Je voudrais mettre l ' accent sur certains points . 
FRENCH Nous entendons fréquemment que le transport maritime à courte distance , et le transport nautique en général , est un mode de transport écologique pour ce qui est des émissions par unité transportée . 
FRENCH D ' un point de vue relatif , cela est certainement vrai . 
FRENCH Toutefois , les progrès réalisés dans ce domaine dans d ' autres secteurs , notamment le transport par route , ébranlent cette position . 
FRENCH Des interventions rapides seraient donc nécessaires au niveau de la navigation . 
FRENCH Je pense de plus , contrairement à certains collègues , que le transport maritime à courte distance ne devrait pas seulement servir de complément aux modes de transport existants , mais également constituer une alternative pour les transports intra - communautaires . 
FRENCH Vu la problématique de la division , voire la réduction des points ECO en Autriche , un itinéraire alternatif du nord au sud et vice versa serait le bienvenu . 
FRENCH Une partie pourrait , en tout cas , être reprise par le transport maritime à courte distance . 
FRENCH Un troisième point concerne ce qui se passe dans les ports . 
FRENCH Si le transport maritime à courte distance souhaite également être plus compétitif sur le plan de la vitesse , des mesures sur le plan des douanes et des activités de chargement et déchargement sont nécessaires , comme le signale pertinemment le rapporteur . 
FRENCH Si le secteur fonctionne mieux et de façon plus moderne , les possibilités devront également être connues . 
FRENCH Dans un certain nombre de pays , dont les Pays - Bas , des agences de renseignements ont été créées dans ce but , et avec succès . 
FRENCH Il est dès lors recommandé aux autorités nationales comme régionales de contribuer de cette manière à l ' essor de ce secteur . 
FRENCH En bref , le rapport de Mme Peijs est très complet et je l ' en complimente sincèrement . 
FRENCH Lorsque les parties impliquées prendront leurs responsabilités , on ne pourra que conclure ce que l ' on sait déjà aux Pays - Bas - : " le transport sur l ' eau , la meilleure voie " - ! 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , pour le visiteur venu de loin , la traversée vers les îles écossaises est un moment romantique , et il est vrai que la beauté ne manque jamais d ' émouvoir les écossais autant que les visiteurs . 
FRENCH Mais pour ceux qui vivent sur ces îles et qui y gagnent leur vie , les services maritimes insulaires représentent à la fois un besoin vital et un obstacle à surmonter pour leur bien - être économique et social . 
FRENCH Les coûts à surmonter ne se limitent pas aux prix de la traversée , même si ceux - ci représentent souvent une difficulté , il faut aussi tenir compte de la difficulté des pré - réservations , des files d ' attente , de l ' adaptation à des horaires variables et à des traversées peu fréquentes et du risque de retard ou d ' annulation suite à des problèmes techniques , à une météo capricieuse , ou encore à des grèves qui prennent parfois l ' île en otage . 
FRENCH En ce moment , la politique de concurrence de l ' Union européenne , qui implique que ces services fassent l ' objet d ' adjudications concurrentielles , inquiète beaucoup les Écossais , car elle minera ces services vitaux , même à leur niveau actuel , et augmentera encore le coût de la vie et la difficulté de faire des affaires . 
FRENCH Peut - être puis - je demander au commissaire Verheugen de transmettre une invitation à Mme le commissaire des transports , sa collègue Mme de Palacio , à m ' accompagner pour une traversée romantique vers les îles écossaises . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , Monsieur le Commissaire , chers collègues , vivant dans un pays qui possède un immense littoral et de très nombreuses îles , vivant même dans une île , je connais de première main la valeur des transports maritimes à courte distance . 
FRENCH Bien entendu , le principal domaine est celui du transport des passagers - ; cependant , le rapport à l ' examen se focalise sur le transport des marchandises , en réponse à la communication de la Commission sur cette question . 
FRENCH L ' - image actuelle que l ' - on en provoque presque la répulsion chez le client , qui a le sentiment d ' - un moyen de transport assez vétuste , lent et compliqué . 
FRENCH Des entraves supplémentaires font aussi obstacle au développement de ces moyens de transport - : les procédures administratives qui pourraient être améliorées , mais aussi les retards , les infrastructures incomplètes et les taxes non transparentes dans certains ports , ainsi que les charges de mouillage qui pourraient être évitées . 
FRENCH Néanmoins , il est possible d ' - améliorer cette image , afin qu ' - ils constituent une solution alternative viable pour les marchandises pouvant être transportées de diverses manières . 
FRENCH Je parle , bien entendu , des lieux qui sont liés aux transports maritimes , comme les îles auxquelles il faut toujours porter une attention particulière . 
FRENCH Le rôle du secteur privé est certes fondamental , mais il existe des aspects du fonctionnement du marché qui exigent une intervention des organes de l ' - État au niveau régional , national et européen , exigeant même une contribution économique , afin que les insulaires ne se sentent pas appartenir à une " - seconde classe - " d ' - Européens . 
FRENCH Le développement du cabotage a une répercussion immédiate sur le développement social et économique de nos régions et , par conséquent , sur la cohésion de l ' - Union européenne . 
FRENCH C ' - est de toute évidence dans cet esprit que le rapporteur a considéré son sujet et elle s ' - en est occupée avec le plus grand sérieux . Je lui dois donc , en tant qu ' - insulaire , des remerciements particuliers . 
FRENCH Nous remercions également le commissaire Verheugen - - qui , comme je le vois , a mis ses écouteurs - - de l ' - attention qu ' - il a accordée , il y a un moment , aux explications du vote des collègues . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , chers collègues , Monsieur le Commissaire , à l ' - heure où nous tentons de corriger des disparités régionales , le rapport de Mme Peijs , qui traite du problème des transports maritime à courte distance et invite les États membres et la Commission à adopter des mesures afin de promouvoir ce type de transport , s ' - avère très opportun . 
FRENCH Comme toujours , je me permets de rappeler que la politique régionale et structurelle de l ' - Union constitue , principalement , une réponse aux contraintes spécifiques que connaissent certaines régions européennes , comme celles dites ultrapériphériques . 
FRENCH La Commission a présenté en mars dernier un rapport établissant une stratégie en vue de leur développement durable et comportant plusieurs aspects principaux , parmi lesquels il faut souligner les relations desdites régions avec leur environnement géographique qui , dans une certaine mesure , conditionne considérablement leur développement . 
FRENCH Nous estimons donc que le rapport de Mme Peijs est pertinent , surtout si on le renforce en approuvant l ' - amendement que j ' ai déposé au sujet de l ' - inclusion du transport maritime entre les ports situés sur les territoires des régions ultrapériphériques et des pays de leur environnement géographique . 
FRENCH Nous pourrions ainsi corriger l ' - erreur commise par la Commission lorsqu ' - elle a élaboré le rapport bisannuel sur le développement de ce type de transport en partant d ' - une définition incomplète du transport maritime à courte distance . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , Monsieur le Commissaire , chers collègues , le transport maritime à courte distance est bien le mode de transport le plus économique , efficace et approprié pour les régions reculées . 
FRENCH Je remercie Mme - Peijs pour sa présentation intéressante . 
FRENCH Dans mon pays , le transport maritime consiste presque entièrement en ce transport maritime à courte distance . Il est donc important pour nous . 
FRENCH Nous formons un cas d ' exception aussi parce que notre seule liaison terrestre avec le reste de l ' UE se trouve dans le nord et de ce fait , l ' importance des transports maritimes est considérable . 
FRENCH Enfin , l ' écartement de nos voies ferrées diffère de celui du reste de l ' Union européenne . 
FRENCH Le plus singulier est pourtant le fait que dans mon pays , les transports maritimes s ' arrêtent toujours en hiver , si l ' on ne prend pas de mesures , car la mer gèle . 
FRENCH Pour cette raison , nous avons dû créer une flotte particulière pour briser la glace . 
FRENCH Ce sont des navires forts , dont l ' énergie correspond à celle utilisée par une ville . 
FRENCH De ce fait - - puisque nous avons ce " handicap de déplacement " - - , nous souhaitons qu ' on puisse subventionner ce brisement des glaces car nous n ' y pouvons rien , c ' est un obstacle voulu par le Créateur . 
FRENCH Il est également déplorable que l ' impact social et l ' impact sur l ' emploi de ce trafic ne sont pas suffisamment relevés . 
FRENCH La main & # x0153 ; uvre bon marché constitue un risque énorme dans ces conditions , donc surtout au nord quand la mer est gelée . 
FRENCH Comment une personne , portant d ' habitude des shorts , presque totalement dépourvue de compétences professionnelles , peut - elle se débrouiller par trente degrés sous zéro avec trois mètres de glace - ? 
FRENCH C ' est un problème . 
FRENCH Le personnel aérien est toujours bien formé mais on ne peut pas dire de même de cette main & # x0153 ; uvre bon marché qui travaille sur les navires . 
FRENCH J ' attends donc que la Commission intervienne dans cette affaire . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , je voudrais moi aussi féliciter Mme - Peijs pour son excellent rapport . 
FRENCH Cette semaine , il y a eu ici au Parlement plusieurs rapports importants concernant les transports et qui visent tous à désencombrer les embouteillages et à diminuer les goulets d ' étranglement du trafic . 
FRENCH L ' excellent rapport de Mme - Peijs vise à exploiter les possibilités du transport maritime à courte distance . 
FRENCH Nous avons vraiment besoin des chaînes logistiques compétitives qui regroupent le trafic routier , les transports ferroviaires , les transports maritimes à courte distance , ainsi que l ' informatique moderne . 
FRENCH Pour les pays d ' outre - mer éloignés , dont fait aussi partie la Finlande , le transport maritime à courte distance est une question vitale , comme le vient de prouver M. - Paasilinna . 
FRENCH Je voudrais souligner la disponibilité et l ' opportunité des ports et des services portuaires . 
FRENCH Il faudra englober les ports dans des réseaux aux dimensions européennes en tant que parties de la structure de base du trafic . 
FRENCH La mise en & # x0153 ; uvre des mesures proposées dans le rapport suppose une bonne coopération entre l ' Union , les États membres , les collectivités locales et aussi les entreprises , ainsi que des efforts réels en faveur du transport maritime à courte distance . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , je voudrais tout d ' abord féliciter le rapporteur pour son excellent rapport . 
FRENCH Nous pouvons très clairement observer les différents problèmes des diverses régions de l ' Union européenne . 
FRENCH Chaque région a ses propres problèmes . 
FRENCH Il nous faut reconnaître qu ' il nous faudra du temps pour atteindre notre objectif final . 
FRENCH Mais il ne fait aucun doute que nous devons faire plus d ' efforts que nous ne l ' avons fait jusqu ' à ce jour afin d ' améliorer le transport maritime à courte distance . 
FRENCH Il est certes très sensé de transporter plus de marchandises par voie maritime que par la route . 
FRENCH Le transport maritime est plus respectueux de l ' environnement et plus acceptable à tous points de vue . 
FRENCH Mais nous devons nous assurer du respect de l ' équilibre . 
FRENCH C ' est ce que le rapporteur a tenté de souligner . 
FRENCH Un des problèmes principaux restera le facteur coût . 
FRENCH Je soutiens la demande de Mme Attwool concernant la A75 . 
FRENCH Elle reconnaît qu ' en Irlande , nous exportons des marchandises via une portion de mer très chère reliant l ' Irlande du Nord et l ' Écosse . 
FRENCH C ' est le canal de distribution principal pour tout ce que nous produisons . 
FRENCH De l ' Écosse , les marchandises sont ensuite acheminées vers l ' Angleterre . 
FRENCH Il doit certainement exister un moyen de transport plus efficace et plus respectueux de l ' environnement , mais il n ' existe pas de moyen meilleur marché . 
FRENCH Si nous voulons que notre industrie et notre agriculture survivent , elles doivent rester abordables . 
FRENCH Nous disposions d ' un service de ferry très efficace reliant Ballycastle au sud de l ' Écosse , mais nous avons été dans l ' obligation de le fermer pour des raisons de manque de soutien et de bureaucratie . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , Madame le rapporteur , je voudrais d ' abord féliciter le rapporteur pour la qualité de son rapport . 
FRENCH Tous les collègues qui sont intervenus l ' ont dit et , comme vous , ont regretté que le transport maritime à courte distance souffre d ' une mauvaise image de marque eu égard à sa lenteur ou son inefficacité , alors qu ' il offre une réponse à la congestion du trafic , au coût élevé des infrastructures et au coût environnemental . 
FRENCH D ' ailleurs , ce transport a connu ces dernières années un succès indéniable , même s ' il est encore insuffisant et mal connu . 
FRENCH Pourtant il présente , vous l ' avez dit , des avantages en termes de coûts , d ' énergie , d ' efficacité , de cohésion régionale , d ' environnement , et même d ' intermodalité , car c ' est un moyen idéal dans la mise en & # x0153 ; uvre des transports multimodaux . 
FRENCH Des mesures doivent donc être prises rapidement pour renforcer l ' efficacité des opérations portuaires et réduire les temps d ' attente dans les ports . 
FRENCH Personnellement , j ' insiste pour que la puissance publique joue son rôle , tant au niveau régional que national et européen . 
FRENCH Deux points cependant de votre rapport me posent problème . 
FRENCH Il y a d ' abord la proposition qui vise à établir une liste des ports particulièrement adaptés au transport maritime à courte distance . 
FRENCH Cette liste ne me paraît pas nécessaire , car elle comporte le risque de pénaliser les ports qui ne sont pas aujourd ' hui tout à fait adaptés , mais qui vont se transformer pour l ' avenir . 
FRENCH Par ailleurs , il est suggéré de regrouper en un seul point l ' offre des services logistiques de transport faite aux utilisateurs . 
FRENCH Je suis pour un système d ' information , mais je refuse personnellement qu ' un grand port déjà en position de force centralise la totalité des services . 
FRENCH J ' aurais enfin aimé , en tant que membre de la commission de l ' industrie , qu ' on dise clairement que le transport maritime à courte distance ne doit pas être considéré comme une alternative , mais qu ' il faudrait une stratégie intermodale établissant une complémentarité entre les modes de transport . 
FRENCH Dans ce cadre et dans cet esprit , les États membres devraient d ' ailleurs harmoniser leur réglementation , en particulier pour le transport terrestre qui provoque souvent , en termes de distorsions , des ruptures de continuité . 
FRENCH Il est important , si on veut avoir un système multimodal , de disposer d ' un ensemble de moyens de transport et de règles qui soient , sinon communes , du moins parfaitement harmonisées . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , permettez - moi de remercier Mme Peijs pour son excellent rapport et pour le travail qu ' elle a fourni . 
FRENCH Je ne connais personne , ni aucune organisation qui ne souhaite pas voir se développer le transport maritime à courte distance . 
FRENCH Nous parlions de son potentiel , et sous - entendions donc que ce secteur ne se portait pas bien . 
FRENCH Mais il se porte bien . 
FRENCH Nous devons donc reconnaître les mérites du transport maritime à courte distance . 
FRENCH Cependant , on peut toujours mieux faire , et l ' industrie maritime est la première à le reconnaître . 
FRENCH Permettez - moi de mentionner quelques points - clés du rapport de Mme Peijs . 
FRENCH Il nous faut une approche globale pour un concept de service porte à porte véritable . 
FRENCH Il doit être pleinement intégré dans la chaîne de transport et être proposé par des guichets uniques . 
FRENCH Plusieurs goulots d ' étranglement entravent le développement du transport maritime à courte distance . 
FRENCH Les services de la Commission , ainsi que les nouveaux États membres et le secteur de l ' industrie s ' emploient en ce moment à les identifier et à leur trouver des solutions potentielles . 
FRENCH Un point déjà identifié est la diversité des documents requis pour le transport maritime à courte distance . 
FRENCH Dans un souci d ' uniformité , la Commission a l ' intention de présenter , d ' ici la fin de l ' année , une proposition visant à harmoniser certains documents nécessaires au départ et à l ' arrivée de certains bateaux . 
FRENCH L ' efficacité des ports est essentielle pour le transport maritime à courte distance , c ' est pourquoi la Commission présentera également d ' ici la fin de l ' année un ensemble de mesures visant à augmenter leur efficacité par la libéralisation . 
FRENCH De plus , il est nécessaire de renouveler l ' image démodée du transport maritime à courte distance , ce qui , à ma grande satisfaction , a déjà été mentionné au cours du débat . 
FRENCH Les offices nationaux de promotion du transport maritime à courte distance doivent jouer un rôle essentiel dans la mise en & # x0153 ; uvre de cette politique . 
FRENCH Certains offices de promotion existent déjà et la Commission encourage à en établir d ' autres afin de créer un réseau européen de promotion . 
FRENCH Le programme PACT - - c ' est - à - dire un programme d ' actions pilotes en faveur du transport combiné - - a constitué de par le passé la principale source de subventions communautaires consacrées au transport maritime à courte distance . 
FRENCH L ' année dernière , 40 - % du budget du programme PACT , soit 2,3 millions d ' euros , ont été alloués pour promouvoir le transport maritime combiné à courte distance . 
FRENCH Ce montant sera encore plus élevé en 2000, pour atteindre 50 - % du budget total du programme PACT . 
FRENCH Il se pourrait même que ce principe fasse partie intégrante du texte légal lors de la révision prochaine du PACT . 
FRENCH M. Purvis m ' a demandé de transmettre une invitation à ma collègue Mme de Palacio . 
FRENCH Je n ' y manquerai pas et je suis certain que Mme de Palacio appréciera cette croisière romantique en Écosse . 
FRENCH Je pense même que la traversée n ' en serait que plus romantique si vous m ' invitiez à l ' accompagner . 
FRENCH Merci de vous être assurée que nous avancions tous dans la même direction . 
FRENCH Joignons nos forces dans cet effort . Je peux vous assurer que la Commission fera de son mieux . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , permettez - moi d ' exprimer mon mécontentement . En effet , je n ' ai obtenu aucun accusé de réception , encore moins de réponse de la part de la Commission sur un sujet pour lequel je lui ai pourtant adressé une question par écrit il y a plus de six semaines , et que j ' ai également abordé au cours du débat . 
FRENCH Merci beaucoup , Monsieur MacCormick . 
FRENCH Le vote aura lieu demain à 9 heures . 
FRENCH Dialogue civil 
FRENCH L ' - ordre du jour appelle la question orale à la Commission ( B5 - 0533 / 2000 ) , au nom de la commission de l ' - emploi et des affaires sociales , sur le financement futur du dialogue civil . 
FRENCH La parole est à M. Pronk . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , je n ' ose espérer qu ' il nous reste beaucoup de temps à cette heure avancée . 
FRENCH Il est dommage de devoir clôturer maintenant un débat pourtant important en soi . 
FRENCH Si je peux me permettre d ' abuser de cette occasion , je pense qu ' il serait peut - être intelligent , si à l ' avenir nous ne votons pas le mardi , d ' instaurer un tour de vote supplémentaire le mardi soir , afin de ne pas accumuler plus de retard pendant la semaine . 
FRENCH Mais cela n ' a bien sûr pas grand - chose à voir avec ces questions . 
FRENCH Je n ' ai pas besoin d ' en dire trop à ce sujet . 
FRENCH Tout d ' abord , l ' importance exceptionnelle du rôle joué par les organisations non gouvernementales aussi bien au niveau des États membres qu ' au niveau de l ' Union européenne et qu ' en dehors de l ' Union européenne est incontestable . 
FRENCH Tout le monde est d ' accord sur ce point , le Conseil l ' a dit , la Commission l ' a souvent rappelé , de même que ce Parlement . 
FRENCH Il est également vrai que l ' article 136 du traité européen , si vous l ' associez aux déclarations 23 et 38, souligne la nécessité d ' une collaboration avec , notamment , les associations de solidarité , qui sont naturellement aussi des organisations non gouvernementales . 
FRENCH Le Parlement européen l ' a toujours mis en pratique et a ainsi créé il y a un certain temps , il y a assez longtemps , une ligne budgétaire , B3 - 4101, afin de permettre le financement des organisations non gouvernementales . 
FRENCH Seulement , à la suite des différentes dispositions prises en accord avec le Conseil et à la suite des arrêts de la Cour de Justice , cette ligne a plus ou moins disparu après trois ans . 
FRENCH Cela fait déjà trois ans que la Commission européenne est au courant que tel serait le cas . 
FRENCH Là n ' est pas le problème . 
FRENCH D ' une part , nous constatons l ' importance notable , d ' autre part , nous notons qu ' il y a assez peu d ' actions concrètes , à l ' exception du texte publié par la Commission sur lequel porte en particulier notre demande d ' information . 
FRENCH Le tout est de voir à présent comment nous pouvons concrétiser les belles idées que nous avons tous exprimées . 
FRENCH C ' est ici qu ' apparaissent souvent , et je ne parle pas au nom de la Commission mais en mon nom , certains problèmes bureaucratiques . 
FRENCH Cela est peut - être dû au fait que différentes directions de la Commission sont impliquées . 
FRENCH Les ONG ne sont pas limitées à une direction générale . 
FRENCH Il est possible que l ' on recherche une sorte de point de vue général et que l ' on souhaite en même temps avoir également des points de vue spécifiques , mais tout cela prend en tout cas trop de temps , car les lignes budgétaires expirent prochainement . 
FRENCH C ' est également la raison pour laquelle nous demandons ce soir , à cette heure inadéquate en soi , l ' attention de la Commission pour cette problématique . 
FRENCH Il ne s ' agit pas ici de l ' intention de la Commission , mais de la rapidité avec laquelle tout cela peut être réalisé . 
FRENCH Sinon , nous courrons le risque de ne pouvoir mettre en & # x0153 ; uvre une tâche essentielle que nous attribue le traité européen dans des déclarations , mais également ce que nous a dit le Conseil européen à Feira , car les ONG , c ' est là que se situe le problème , sont extrêmement sensibles , du moins pour la plupart , aux interruptions des paiements qui leur sont accordés . 
FRENCH Elles y sont bien plus sensibles que d ' autres organisations et surtout que les États membres . 
FRENCH C ' est ce que craint notre commission . 
FRENCH C ' est la raison pour laquelle nous posons ces questions et c ' est également la raison pour laquelle nous espérons que la Commission réagira rapidement dans les limites des possibilités offertes par le Traité et dans les limites du climat général de bienveillance dont le Conseil a fait preuve à Feira , que le Parlement a vu et que la Commission a démontré . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , je peux être exceptionnellement bref . 
FRENCH Je pense que la réponse du commissaire était , en soi , encourageante . 
FRENCH Je trouve en effet que , pour ce qui est du Parlement , nous devons faire tout notre possible pour ne pas laisser des procédures entraver la bonne marche de tout ceci . 
FRENCH Je dois bien dire que , avec toutes les possibilités dont nous disposions notamment sur le plan financier , nous avons fait de notre mieux pour maintenir les lignes budgétaires permettant de continuer à financer les ONG . 
FRENCH Seulement , à un certain moment , cela ne marche plus et la rapidité devient alors primordiale . 
FRENCH Il ne s ' agit pas tant , en fait , du contenu du Traité actuel ou des déclarations actuelles - ; pour lui , il s ' agit , en fait , uniquement de modifier ces déclarations de sorte à constituer une base juridique pouvant servir de base pour un programme . 
FRENCH C ' est là que se situe le problème et je voudrais demander au commissaire s ' il est possible d ' y accorder de l ' attention au sein de la Commission . 
FRENCH Nous ne demandons donc pas un nouveau Traité , mais de l ' attention . 
FRENCH Enfin , vu que dans le cadre de l ' élargissement , nous avons naturellement encore beaucoup à faire avec le développement des ONG dans les nouveaux États membres , nous estimons qu ' il faut leur accorder une priorité particulière . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , j ' interviens au nom du groupe socialiste pour soutenir ce qu ' a dit M. - Pronk au nom de l ' ensemble de la commission . 
FRENCH Je dois dire , me référant aux réponses du commissaire , qu ' elles ne m ' ont pas du tout satisfaite , dans le sens où nous connaissons les documents visés et où , comme le disait M. - Pronk , il nous faut faire preuve de célérité et de décision . 
FRENCH Nous savons qu ' un dialogue existe depuis des années . 
FRENCH Je crois que la Commission doit proposer des solutions concrètes parce que sinon ce problème ne se résoudra pas . 
FRENCH Je décèle également une certaine contradiction et j ' éprouve quelque inquiétude , que je crois partagée par la commission de l ' emploi et des affaires sociales , parce qu ' il me semble que les actes de la Commission sont quelque peu contradictoires . 
FRENCH Les organisations non gouvernementales et le rôle économique et social qu ' elles jouent dans le processus de construction démocratique de l ' Union et tout le secteur de l ' économie sociale sont désormais reconnus , non seulement dans les textes , mais aussi dans la réalité concrète - - si on considère qu ' environ neuf millions de personnes travaillent dans ce secteur - - comme un secteur essentiel et important . 
FRENCH Eh bien , dans ses derniers choix , la Commission - - je pense à la Direction générale Industrie - - estime que c ' est une priorité négative - - voilà maintenant qu ' ils inventent les priorités positives et négatives - - et a supprimé l ' unité " économie sociale " . 
FRENCH Je crois que c ' est très grave et cela nous fait penser que les déclarations , qui sont réaffirmées ici et que nous avons entendues à plusieurs reprises , déboucheront sur des actes concrets dans la mauvaise direction . 
FRENCH La plate - forme des ONG , l ' instrument par lequel la Commission et le Parlement ont maintenu le dialogue , tout ce petit monde se sent un peu dévalorisé . Nous - mêmes nous sentons un peu humiliés quand les déclarations vont dans un sens et les décisions concrètes dans l ' autre . 
FRENCH L ' absence d ' interlocuteur rendra , du point de vue fonctionnel également , plus difficile la résolution de ces problèmes au lieu de la faciliter . 
FRENCH Si nous voulons vraiment les affronter dans un esprit positif , accélérer les procédures et donner des réponses positives non seulement aux organisations non gouvernementales , mais aussi aux citoyens européens , il faudra revoir toute une série de décisions et , surtout , en modifier certaines . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , plusieurs membres du groupe des verts et de l ' Alliance libre européenne ont fait partie d ' ON et du mouvement activiste et ce sujet nous tient donc particulièrement à c & # x0153 ; ur . 
FRENCH Nous avons abordé aujourd ' hui le rapport annuel de la commission des pétitions , à savoir les plaintes relatives au processus d ' évaluation des événements qui se déroulent au sein de l ' Union européenne . 
FRENCH Selon nous , les ONG font partie intégrante du processus de prévention . 
FRENCH Elles fournissent un mécanisme d ' observation ainsi qu ' un moyen de nous assurer que nous ne perdons pas de vue les aspects de la législation que nous mettons en place . 
FRENCH Elles nous donnent de nouvelles idées et sont essentielles dans notre processus . 
FRENCH Les ONG font partie de ces quelques organisations réellement actives au nom du citoyen et si nous essayons d ' installer la confiance au sein des structures que nous mettons en place , leur rôle est tout à fait crucial . 
FRENCH Leur présence est primordiale pour contrebalancer de nombreux intérêts purement financiers qui ne semblent avoir aucun mal à se frayer un chemin jusqu ' à nos portes , alors que les activités internationales des ONG ont un coût très élevé . 
FRENCH Le travail que nous avons fourni au sein des diverses commissions au cours des dernières semaines concernant l ' article 13 relatif à la non - discrimination , n ' aurait pas été possible sans l ' apport de ces organismes . 
FRENCH Il est donc très important de décider d ' une base légale claire pour leur participation et donc leur financement , car cette Assemblée ne peut pas fonctionner correctement sans eux . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , au cours de ces dernières années , l ' UE a obtenu plusieurs compétences importantes dans le domaine social , mais l ' UE n ' a pas vraiment reçu beaucoup d ' argent pour résoudre le problème social . 
FRENCH Tant que les États membres penseront que les questions sociales relèvent , au fond , de leur propre compétence , nous n ' assisterons pas à un changement rapide . 
FRENCH Nous savons que les ressources existantes sont fortement budgétisées et qu ' il est difficile de déplacer les ressources dans le budget . 
FRENCH Il sera difficile de satisfaire de nouveaux besoins aussi longtemps que l ' avis appartiendra aux États membres . 
FRENCH C ' est la raison pour laquelle je pense qu ' il est absolument essentiel , pour nous qui travaillons dans les institutions de l ' UE , de veiller à donner aux organisations démocratiques bénévoles d ' Europe qui & # x0153 ; uvrent dans le domaine social plus de poids qu ' à l ' heure actuelle . 
FRENCH Nous pouvons tous constater que des activités transfrontalières sont également nécessaires dans le domaine social . 
FRENCH Il y a donc une place pour les organisations bénévoles . 
FRENCH Il serait toutefois malheureux , et peut - être est - ce ainsi que les États membres le voient , que les organisations sociales bénévoles soient étroitement liées économiquement et politiquement à l ' UE - - plus qu ' elles ne le sont déjà . 
FRENCH Leur force réside justement dans le fait qu ' elles sont bénévoles et civiles et peuvent envisager les problèmes sociaux d ' une perpective autre que celle des autorités et constituer dès lors un complément , une alternative à la Commission , au Conseil et au Parlement . 
FRENCH Je voudrais en profiter , malgré le peu de gens qui écoutent - - il reste seulement quelque six députés dans l ' Assemblée - - pour présenter une proposition . 
FRENCH Je propose que la Commission cherche à instituer à cette fin un fonds européen dans le domaine social avec l ' aide des organisations bénévoles . 
FRENCH Je propose que la Commission se tourne vers le Conseil et les États membres pour chercher à obtenir d ' eux qu ' ils apportent leur contribution financière à un tel fonds . 
FRENCH Il doit s ' agir d ' un fonds créé sous forme d ' institution indépendante , dont la direction est composée de personnes provenant des organisations sociales elles - mêmes , ainsi que d ' observateurs et d ' experts dans le domaine social . 
FRENCH Le contrôle budgétaire serait exercé par des réviseurs professionnels . 
FRENCH Je pense que si l ' on se lance dans une telle tâche en faisant preuve d ' une certaine subtilité diplomatique , les États membres devraient réagir positivement à la proposition . 
FRENCH Je pense également que toutes les autres parties , les défavorisés sociaux , les organisations bénévoles , les États membres et les institutions de l ' UE , devraient tirer de grandes satisfactions d ' une telle institution . 
FRENCH Vous nous avez dit , " la Commission est là pour faire face aux frais de fonctionnement des ONG " . Or , nous , parlementaires , ce que nous voulons , c ' est faire en sorte que toutes les ONG puissent être servies et financées sur la base d ' un certain nombre de projets concrets . 
FRENCH Car , aujourd ' hui , ce sont les grandes ONG qui ont la faculté de répondre à un certain nombre d ' appels d ' offres - : Médecins du monde , Médecins sans frontières , Croix - Rouge , etc . , et j ' en oublie , mais , c ' est la première observation que je voudrais faire . 
FRENCH Vous n ' êtes pas sans savoir les difficultés qu ' ont nombre de petites ONG à pouvoir souscrire à un certain nombre d ' appels d ' offres . 
FRENCH Or , celles - ci font un travail de relations , de compétences , tout aussi important que des grandes ONG , parce que certaines d ' entre elles n ' ont pas , précisément , les logiques administratives qu ' ont certaines grandes ONG . 
FRENCH Deuxièmement , ce que nous souhaiterions aussi , c ' est pouvoir donner satisfaction aux ONG , afin d ' intervenir en amont du drame . 
FRENCH Je prends un seul exemple - : la protection de l ' enfance . 
FRENCH Pendant quatre ans , nous avons été un certain nombre de parlementaires à nous battre pour qu ' un financement soutienne des associations qui & # x0153 ; uvraient contre la maltraitance . 
FRENCH Aujourd ' hui , il n ' en reste plus qu ' un seul , le programme Daphné , mais nous pouvons le regretter . 
FRENCH Je peux vous dire qu ' en tant que spécialistes des questions de la petite enfance , un certain nombre d ' ONG aimeraient bien pouvoir répondre à un certain nombre d ' appels d ' offres . 
FRENCH Enfin , il me semble qu ' il serait souhaitable que les procédures soient simplifiées et qu ' à cet égard -- je ne sais pas s ' il faut que cela soit un fonds -- mais que la Commission , au moins dans un premier temps , puisse mettre à la disposition des ONG un service leur permettant de se renseigner sur le travail réalisé par d ' autres , éventuellement de se mettre en réseau thématique pour postuler ultérieurement aux appels à propositions de la Commission . 
FRENCH Voilà , Monsieur le Commissaire , chers collègues , ce que je voulais dire . 
FRENCH Nous avancerons dans le secteur social , car nous savons que nous avons à progresser au niveau d ' une coopération dans le secteur social . 
FRENCH Il nous faudra du temps . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , Mme Lambert et Mme Ghilardotti ont raison . 
FRENCH Les ONG européennes à caractère social jouent un rôle essentiel dans notre travail , comme peut le constater chaque personne ayant étudié les mesures anti - discrimination de l ' article 13 . 
FRENCH Depuis la crise budgétaire de 1998 qui a engendré le gel des fonds destinés au travail que mènent les ONG avec certaines des populations les plus vulnérables d ' Europe et des pays en voie de développement , de grand progrès ont été accomplis . 
FRENCH La présidence portugaise a jeté de nouvelles bases en invitant la plate - forme d ' aide européenne au Sommet informel de Lisbonne sur les affaires sociales et la présidence française suit l ' exemple . 
FRENCH Des initiatives de ce type ont été reconnues dans les conclusions du Sommet de Lisbonne . 
FRENCH Cela fait maintenant deux ans que les discussions avec les ONG ont été entamées . Tout ce que la Commission a pu mettre en place suite à ces discussions sont un document de réflexion et deux groupes de travail internes qui se sont très peu rencontrés . 
FRENCH Entre temps , les ONG - - et j ' ai travaillé dans le secteur des ONG - - s ' enlisent dans les règlements bureaucratiques qui ont été introduits pour augmenter le degré de responsabilité et de transparence , mais qui en fait n ' engendrent qu ' un surplus de paperasserie . 
FRENCH L ' unique ligne budgétaire dont nous disposions - - la ligne B3 - 4101 - - a été supprimée et la Commission n ' a pu proposer aucune base légale pour le dialogue civil , en suggérant soit un règlement du Conseil soit un article du Traité . 
FRENCH Pire encore , la Commission a fait savoir que les ONG à caractère social devront être fondées sur les bases de nos nouvelles lignes budgétaires sur la discrimination et l ' exclusion sociale . 
FRENCH Comment cela est - il possible alors que les fonds octroyés à ces programmes ont été réduits bien au - delà des limites du raisonnable - ? 
FRENCH De nombreuses ONG à caractère social utiles doivent faire face à de sérieuses crises dues à l ' inaction de la Commission et du Conseil . 
FRENCH Il m ' est arrivé de voir une ONG remplir une candidature pour des projets nécessitant 80 pages de budget et tellement de documents annexes que le dossier pesait plus de douze kilos . 
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , cela doit changer . 
FRENCH Les ONG sont essentielles pour notre travail et nous nous devons de les soutenir . 
FRENCH Je voudrais remercier tous les députés ayant participé à ce débat pour leurs idées , même les plus critiques . 
FRENCH Je me permets juste de donner deux brèves réponses . 
FRENCH Tout d ' - abord en ce qui concerne les bases juridiques et le financement . 
FRENCH Nous ne devons pas oublier qu ' - il fait partie des caractéristiques d ' - une organisation non gouvernementale qu ' - elle ne soit pas dépendante du financement par des instances publiques . 
FRENCH Il ne peut en effet s ' - agir que d ' - un soutien et d ' - une collaboration à des projets . 
FRENCH Cela pour le fond du problème . 
FRENCH Le thème des organisations non gouvernementales et de l ' élargissement a donc été maintes fois abordé . 
FRENCH Je veux répondre à cela , parce que cela touche ma compétence directe . 
FRENCH Toutes les idées que j ' - ai entendues dans le cadre de ce débat sont concrétisées depuis longtemps . 
FRENCH Nous collaborons intensivement , via les aides de préadhésion , avec les organisations non gouvernementales dans les pays candidats à l ' - adhésion et la stratégie de communication , dont le cadre organisationnel et financier a été arrêté dans l ' intervalle , s ' - adresse aussi tout particulièrement aux organisations non gouvernementales dans les pays candidats à l ' - adhésion , car il s ' - agit précisément d ' - impliquer pleinement la société civile dans cet important processus politique . 
FRENCH Je rapporterai fidèlement tout le reste à la Commission , je ne tairai pas l ' - attitude que j ' ai ressentie plutôt critique au cours de ce débat et je vous promets que je m ' - engagerai en tous les cas pleinement à la simplification des procédures et à l ' accélération des décisions . 
FRENCH Mesdames et Messieurs , merci beaucoup . 
FRENCH ( La séance est levée à 21h08 ) 
